hello and welcome back to tips and
time-savers on Danny rocks and in
today's lesson I'm going to demonstrate
two ways that you can turn Excel data on
its side by using transpose the first
method I find that many people are now
familiar with what we can do is if our
manager says that's fine Danny but I
would prefer to have the months of the
year not running horizontally across in
rows 7 I would prefer that the months of
the year come down vertically in column
a so we can transpose our data set so
the first way that we'll do it is using
copy/paste special transpose the second
method that I'm going to demonstrate
uses the transpose function in Excel now
the transpose function is an array
function so there are several elements
to an array function that are not
familiar to many people all right so our
first process our first step in the
process is to select all the data of
course we could simply select it with
the mouse but here's a quicker way when
you want to select all of the cells in a
contiguous grid select a single cell in
the grid and use the keyboard shortcut
ctrl a so now that we've selected it I'm
going to use copy now I'm using Excel
2010 in this lesson I don't want to use
Excel 2010 going forward so now that
we've copied it come down and with a
single cell selected right mouse click
and what we want to do is we want to use
paste special transpose now in Excel
2010 notice that when I use the shortcut
menu I have what's called live preview
so I can see what transposing my copy
data will look like I'll click OK to
accept it and now what we see down here
and I'll use escape to take it off the
clipboard is that we have the regions
have been transposed from coming down
vertically in the row to running across
horizontally in in row 16 now we also
have the formatting so that formatting
that I've applied to the labels gets
carried over the formatting that I
applied to the totals gets carried over
and so does the formula that I use the
sum function to total up January for
each of the regions now what I want to
do now is I want to illustrate how we
can copy formatting I really don't like
this formatting now that it's been
transposed so one way to do this is to
just select the cell whose formatting
you want to paste and I'm going to use
my right mouse click and in Excel 2007
Excel 2010 we have the mini toolbar so I
want to double click on the format
paintbrush and now I'm simply going to
drag my format paintbrush over the cell
whose format I want to change to copy
the formatting from the cell that I've
selected click it again and there you go
now I'm going to hit the Escape key to
remove the format paintbrush I want to
use the format paintbrush to copy this
formatting to these cells so since it's
going to be in one single swipe I'll
just right mouse click with the mini
toolbar click once and then make one
application of the format paintbrush and
there you go alright now notice that
what we have here is we have a copy so
when we did copy paste special transpose
it rearranged our data set but it put
the values in as absolutes now I did
keep the formulas but it what I mean by
absolutes is I don't have a link to the
source data so if the source data were
to change and I found that that January
sales were only 75,000 well you see then
I have made the change in the original
but not in the update so copy paste
special transpose is terrific when you
strictly want to make a restructure your
data vertical the horizontal horizontal
to vertical but what if you want to
maintain a link to your source if you
want to maintain a link to the source
one way to do that is to use the
transpose function in Excel and let me
show you how we can use the transpose
function and what the Gotcha steps are
when we use any array function first
what I'm going to do is I'm going to
copy the structure I'm going to copy the
labels of our
original so I selected it and made a
copy here's another way to make a
selection in a contiguous range control
shift and the down arrow selects all of
the cells going down in that vertical
range right mouse click and say copy and
I'll come over here and I'll use control
V to paste it ok now for an array
function what we want to do for the
transpose function the array function
called transpose is we want to make a
selection of all the cells that will
receive the transpose results and I'll
put in equals transpose and notice that
there's one argument the array so now
the array that I'm going to select is up
here in my original source I'm going to
select all the cells that contain the
sales as well as the cells that contain
the sum function I'll close off the
parentheses now here is your second
gotcha step with an array function with
an array formula you press three keys
ctrl shift enter so before I hit it
CSE see for ctrl s or shift e for enter
so CSE and there you go so now I have
copied the information that was up here
in my original I didn't copy the the
formatting the formatting doesn't come
over but look at this when you use an
array function or an array formula
notice that the formula that is in the
array down here is b8 through m 14 b8
through m 14 that is one of the great
features with an array function or an
array formula now also notice that if I
try to change a value so if I try to
change this back to 150,000
here's another benefit of that array
function and array formula you cannot
change the values for an individual cell
if you want to change the values you
have to make a selection of all of the
cells that were in that array for the
transpose function so now we can see
that with the array function we do now
have a link so if I make a change in
Maya
general source that change is reflected
down here in the array and that could be
any number I could just make this a
hundred thousand and for October in
region one I can see that that has been
updated even though the formula remains
the same for all of the cells now let me
show you another way that we can copy
and paste the formatting only so in this
case I want to right mouse click and I
want to say copy now I'm going to come
over here and make a selection of all of
the cells and I'm going to right mouse
click now again remember I'm using Excel
2010 and something that I really like
down here are the paste options I get a
live preview so if I want to do a simple
paste that's what it will look like if I
want to paste the values only that's
what it will look like if I want to
paste the formulas if I want to paste
the formatting and that's in fact what
I'm going to want to do I'm going to
want to paste the formatting so rather
than using the format paintbrush and you
can also find the format paintbrush up
here on the Home tab in the clipboard
group the format painter now you've seen
how we can make those changes using two
methods paste special transpose which
will change the structure but will not
create a link to your source or we can
use the transpose function which is an
array function we first make a selection
of all those cells that will contain the
results of our array function the
transpose function then after we write
equals transpose left parenthesis we
select the array and then we use control
shift enter
it's a CSE formula CSE function and
there you've seen how you can turn your
excel data on its side and I'll look for
you in the next lesson
Let's say we have a matrix A (matrix called block letters - bold)
... so we have matrix A.
It's a 3x2 matrix type.
Say, 1, -2, 3, 0, 7, 5, ... is a 3x2 matrix
And my question is, how will the transposed matrix of a matrix?
So, we write A transposition such as "A" to "T" superscript
and this is what we are talking about transposition
A. A matrix of your natural question should be, what it means to make a matrix transposition, which sounds complicated.
Well, it's not that hard. All this means that the lines are converted into columns. And the columns become rows.
What i mean?
Okay, let's do it here.
So, if we have three rows and two columns
... or 3x2 matrix ... when all rows become the columns and rows of columns, the transposition of a matrix of 2x3.
It will be two lines - two columns become two lines - a line of three become three columns.
And it will look like this ... will draw blue ...
... we now have two lines and three columns.
So as I said, of all the lines become columns
and rows of columns, and here we can see clearly.
We are the first line, consisting of 1 and -2
and can now transform him in the first column.
1 -2.
Second row: 3 0th
This is now my second column.
3 and 0th
And we have a third line 7 and the fifth
This will now be my third column.
7 and the fifth
You may see even simpler method:
Let's see: I have two columns, my first column is 1, 3, 7
so my first line will also be 1, 3, 7th
A second column is -2, 0, 5th
So my second line will be -2, 0, 5th
Let's have another example, just for clarification:
Consider the matrix B, a very simple matrix type 2x2.
So, -1, 5, pi, third
What will be the transposed matrix of the matrix B?
So again, we have two columns and two rows
and because the line is changed to columns and columns to rows
so we still have a 2x2 matrix.
Look, my first line -1, 5 will now be my first column, -1, 5th
The second line here, pi and 3, will now be my second column, when a third
And so we created a transposed matrix.
All lines were converted to column
All columns are converted into lines.
hello everyone welcome to tech TOCOM
this lecture will understand transpose
of matrix I hope you already know this
but my duty is to revise this so
transpose of matrix is the matrix formed
by changing the row by column and column
by rows okay what I want to say here is
for a matrix a if you consider its a b c
d okay so the transpose of matrix a
which is represented by a dashed are
represented by a t okay is equal to is
equal to just change for example you
have first row ABC so make it first
column a b c and then second row make it
second column d e okay something like
this right so this is transpose of
matrix a t very simple we have various
applications of it but the most
important point to remember are for gate
point of view is the property again okay
so the properties are
pure very obvious property let's let's
revise it so and the first one is the
transpose of a and again if you take the
transpose it is equal to a right a
dashed off a - two equal to a transpose
simply like once you form this and then
again if you take the transform or
transpose it will become this right so
it's like taking transpose and then
again getting back to the original
matrix now transpose is distributive
over addition see E Plus V if we have
two matrix and we take summation n
transpose so this is equal to taking
individual transpose and then summing it
up okay now another is again very a
scalar multiplication so this is also
very obvious property like if you
multiply scalar with transpose which it
will be equal to multiply multiply K
ssin of the matrix original matrix and
then taking transpose now I'll come to
the most important I mean the only
important property of transpose and
which is the multiplication so if we
have a B okay so if we multiply a B and
take transpose this will be equal to B
transpose a transpose okay as we have
mentioned or so many times that order of
multiplication matters in matrix
multiplication so here it is a B here it
is B a so when you take transpose of a
multiplication of two matrices then when
if you want to break this bracket the
order will be changed so this is again
important property and
the problem related to this you may find
some that may be in previous gate one
question has been asked so this that
question we will discuss in a little
illustration posit so I hope you
understand it you have to put from this
lecture you have to remember this this
important property okay so whenever you
have multiplication you change the order
for for example we will take another
example for example you have X matrix
another is a MT okay and then you take
transpose multiplication then transform
so if you want to break the order will
be changed okay so first it will come T
okay then then mm is in between then X
individual transposed okay so I hope you
understand it if you have any doubt ask
your question I don't think you will
have any doubt from the session but
still if you have any doubt any new
question you can ask it ask your doubter
question in doubt section if you have a
very good example on this please share
your example in example section so learn
here by sharing this will be a good
platform if you share your all rich
materials which you have so hope to see
you next lecture thanks for watching
hello my name is Jeffrey Olga I want to
thank you for checking at my video this
is a quick tip video so I'm going to be
very brief and to the point this is
about transposition if you did not write
the song even if you did write the song
it may or may not be in the best key for
your voice and the only way to find out
whether or not it is is to move it
around a little bit and try out some
different key areas in the way that we
do that is called transposition
basically what it's doing is it's taking
advantage of the relative nature of all
the different keys that the Western
tonal system of music is in to move it
around so that everything stays the same
relatively it's just shifted over let me
show you let's just say I had a song it
was like this
a time but I decided that was too high
for me or too low well I can move it
keeping everything the same more or less
which is making it a little bit lower
time or if it was really too high
running out
the benefits of transposition are that
we can take any song that we wish to
sing and put it into the sweet spot of
our voices so that it's taking best
advantage of our voice however the song
is now maybe the song needs to have a
really dramatic high part well we
wouldn't transpose it so it was really
low and it took away the drama of that
moment we would put it just high enough
so that it was in a good place for our
voices but it still had the drama
ultimately it's about serving the song
as much as it is about serving our
voices to help along with this I made a
little PDF that you can download in
order to make this easier so here we
have the chart okay
hopefully to help you make transposition
a lot easier first off labeling of the
chords one chord to chord three chord 4
chord 5 6 &amp; 7 that is to correspond with
the Roman numerals it also lets you know
what chord you are playing from the key
okay the keys are arranged chromatically
down the left-hand side and they go like
I said chromatically so from half step
to half step to half step all the way up
and all the way down and this is a
partial chart the one that's in PDF
format on the website is much bigger
than this so you've got a lot more room
to work
now I included the Roman numerals as
well because I find that thinking in
Roman numerals helps me transpose on the
fly so if I find that I need to make a
very quick change of key on a song I
tend to think about chord symbols when I
see them in Roman numeral format and it
makes it very easy for me to change the
key that can take a little bit of
practice and a little time just you know
stick with it okay now to use the chart
you have to figure out what key you're
in then you'll go to the left hand
column and say okay I'm in the key of
b-flat and in my in my song I have a
b-flat and e-flat and an F chord as well
as a D chord and I think well that's a
little too low for me I needs to be a
bit higher so we could
to see and there I look for the b-flat
and there's the C so I'm going to play a
C whenever I see a b-flat whenever I
have an e-flat I'm going to play F
whenever I'm going to play F I'm going
to play G and if I have to play D from
the original key I'll play E in the new
key now you will have to pay attention
to the tonality of the chords in your
song so b-flat in the key of B flat is
normally major D is normally minor E
flat is normally major and so is f is
also normally major and those will be
the way that you'll play them in the new
key as well it's most likely marked
you'll just have to make a note of it
now if you do start to make the
transition to thinking in Roman numerals
the other benefit there is that the
uppercase ones tell you that their major
the lowercase ones tell you which chords
are typically minor the seven has a
little circle because it's diminished
and we have to use that circle to
differentiate between the minor triads
and the diminished triads and that is
just about it is by no way
utterly complete transposition is
something that takes practice and time
but if you get into it and practice it
you can have a very very strong impact
on how you are able to move songs around
not only to practice them but also to
find the most ideal performance keys for
you or for the artists that you are
working with my name is Jeff Roca thank
you for watching if you have questions
or comments please drop them in the
comments section and I'll get back to
you just as soon as I can if you've
chosen to subscribe I thank you very
very much if you haven't yet the link is
on screen now and you can take care of
that right away if you find the video is
helpful but you think that you'd like a
little bit more personal attention you
can get in touch with me via my website
I do lessons in person and via Skype and
I'd be happy to talk with you and see if
we'd be a good fit to work together I
don't think I put a link on screen to
the PDF yet so that is on screen
now finally thank you one last time for
watching take very good care of your
voices enjoy singing and hopefully we'll
see you again thanks bye
all right I want to show you a little
trick that you can use to play simple
songs in pretty much any key you want so
I'm going to start by showing you a
little progression that I'm just gonna
make up let's say it's not something
like this
so we call that our like a little piece
of music or loop and so when I played
there is a CG F F one more time
CG actually not quite true so a D minor
so that's our little piece of music um
so what I want you to think about is
instead of thinking about those chords
as letter c GF c GF c g d FB c think
about them as numbers so if we look at
the C major scale which is song is in
the key of c to c c d e f g a b c 1 now
instead of saying those those uh note
names say them as numbers starting with
1 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 ok so that progression
that we played which was C G F I want
you to think about in terms of numbers
this is the whole key here so C is 1 1 G
is 5 5 F is four four five one five four
five five
Oh three four five I wasn't singing
exactly the right notes but that's the
progression that I played there so if
you look at the core so watch my leg
left hand as it moves and just think
about the numbers
five two minor
five so we just remembered that like
number sequence one five four one five
four one five two four five one then we
can play that song that little piece of
music in any key we want so in the key
of C it's easy it's all the white notes
but like let's take for instance the key
of D the D major scale is like this one
two three four five six seven eight
seven six five four three two one
remember we use a lot of one five we
used 2 4 and use the two to mine so
let's see if I can play this song in the
key of D now that we've shifted
- my left hand is 1/5 - minor
you
watch my left hand again
walk up and that's you can play that in
any key that you know the scale so like
take key of F for instance
one two three four five four three two
one four five two minor one five four
five
okay so like this
one five two runner
so that's basically how you can play any
progression if you understand the chord
movement in terms of numbers and if you
know your major scales cool so that's a
very powerful trick I hope it helps you
don't forget to rate comment and
subscribe and I'll see you next time
welcome to Excel magic trick number 460
hey if you want to download this
workbook and follow along click on my
YouTube channel and click on my college
website link and you can download the
workbook excel metric for 58 to 465 in
this video here we want to see how to
transpose a data set and have our
datasets listed vertically we want a
horizontal but we want it linked now I
have used shown the transpose function a
few different times you highlight the
whole range and transpose and then
highlight whatever range it is and this
is an array function so you control
shift enter now that's fine people do
that all the time in fact I do that
quite often but if for some reason you
don't want an array formula for example
if you needed to insert which might be
pretty rare here because that's actually
an advantage here right you don't want
to have someone mess it up and by
inserting a column arrays won't let you
do that for whatever reason you don't
want that array here's an alternative
you could just use the index function
now the array will have it the whole
entire array here and f4 comma now row
number as we go across here we need to
successively get different rows right so
we'll put the columns with an S function
in here we're sitting in cell e 11 so
I'll say dollar sign 11 colon 11 right
that is an ink run umber incrementer
right now it'll say how many columns e 2
e 1 as we move across here to go 1 2 3 4
5 which is exactly what we want for
extracting rows now the call the column
number we only have one two columns here
so we really need to only somehow get a
number one and two will use the rows
function because we will copy down right
as we go down here we need it to go from
1 to 2 and here I'm sitting in 11 so e
11 and I'm going to hit the f4 key
because we'll lock it in both directions
and then comma dollar sign e 11 that's
it and that will right now as we go
across this way it'll remain locked on
the number one so it give us a 1 1 1 1
but when we move down I'll give us 2
which is exactly what 1 because what do
we have we have 1 2 columns
control-enter no control shift enter and
drag it down and drag it over now I
don't think I've ever done this one I
always use this one but if for some
reason it didn't want to use that
transpose that is a clever way to do it
and even if you never use it
understanding how the columns and rows
work as incrementer x' and being able to
reverse it in your you're ahead
given that the columns is delivering a
row number understanding that gives you
some good information how excel is set
up really only in two directions all
right we'll see a next trick
welcome to exhale array formula series
number two hey if you want to download
this workbook and follow along click on
my youtube channel then click on my
college website link and download the
workbook excel or excel or a formulas
one to fourteen hey this trick number
two we're going to see that there are
array functions of course functions or
formulas because there's an equal sign
but this is a built-in function there's
a bunch of them and as we saw in the
first array formula we have to use the
keyboard shortcut ctrl shift enter to
tell Excel that this is an array formula
or in this case we're using an array
function we want to use the transpose
function here we have units sold and
price listed vertically like this we
want to list it horizontally here's how
you do it you got to count the rows 1 2
3 4 5 and that's how many columns R has
to be and then you have to count the
columns 1 2 and that's how many rows are
have to be you highlight it and in the
cell up in the corner the light-colored
cell equals transpose equals transpose
and you simply highlight let's see if I
can move that you simply highlight the
range close parentheses and instead of
enter if you hit enter it gives you an
error it says what hey what so I'm going
to highlight it all there f2 oh the
magic keyboard shortcut to tell Excel
that this is an array formula in this
case an array function you hold ctrl and
shift and then enter there you go that's
how to use the transpose now many of us
know how to do paste special transpose
but the advantage to using a array
function like transposes I can change
this price right here to 14 and sure
enough it changes there I change this to
16 and it changes there I change this to
dollar and sure enough it changes there
so those are linked a way to transpose
link and that isn't our first example of
an array function alright seeing
X trick
hey there it's Nicola Milan from singer
secret and in this episode I am going to
show you a super easy way to transpose
your songs down into a key that suits
your vocal range transposing is a
fantastic tool for every singer to learn
because there are so many times when you
you want to sing a song that has notes
that are either too high for you or too
low for you and so instead of trying to
strain to get those notes all you need
to do is transpose the song down a few
tones or up a few times into a key that
is more suitable for your voice
similarly if you want to sing a song
that's been written and sung by a male
artist originally and you're a female
singer then those notes are going to be
too low for you so you want to transpose
it up and vice versa for guys so I've
got a super easy trick for you that you
can use right now so say that our song
is in the key of C you just go cdefg
base B so these are the notes in the C
major scale c d e f G a B you know think
on a piano you've got those notes and
let's just say that in this key there
are a couple of notes that are too high
for us so we want to transpose it down
just a little bit to make it a little
bit lower so let's just have us think
about our keyboard we've got middle C
the next note below is B then we've got
B flat then we've got a so we're going
to transpose down to a so easiest thing
to do is we know we're going to be using
a so underneath our C I'm doing this
totally old-school style you just go a
you start with a city c d e f g okay um
and then this is where a little bit of
theory comes in because you need to know
your key signatures a little bit but you
can just grab a chart or from the
internet if you don't know what you're
kissing each other so I know that in the
key of a we've got three sharps so
you've got c-sharp we've got F sharp and
we've got G sharp and that is pretty
much it so now when I go through my soul
I know that every time there's a C I
will write an A instead and this is for
if you've got you know the the lyrics
written out with chords across the top
you just go through and you find all of
the C's and you change them to A's
that's it and then your guitarist or
your piano player or yourself or
whatever whoever's playing the music for
you will play the new key and it will
sound lower um yeah
so easy and this works for any key you
can move it up or down you just work out
what your start node is and then you
write you know the ABCDE if we wanted to
change it to history F you just start on
F and then you just go up from there no
f g a b c d e and then in the key of F
there's a b-flat ring done so easy so
even though there are some backing
tracks that you can get now that will
just transpose for you some programs
that will do this for you or if you use
notation software like Sibelius which is
awesome by the way
this will do it for you but it's nice to
know this stuff because quite often
you're out on the gig and you don't have
access to a computer or you know you
don't have time to sort of get your
phone out and go to like this special
transposing app um it's nice to know how
to just do it manually really really
quickly so there you go and it's super
easy way to transpose your songs I hope
you've enjoyed this video if you have
please like and subscribe and if you
would like more free singing tips on how
to improve your singing and make it as a
singer head on over to my website singer
secret com make sure you hop on to my
email list because I do put extra
singing tips and secrets into my emails
that I do
chair anywhere else and you don't want
to miss out thanks again for watching
I'm Nicola Milan and I'll talk to you
again soon
in electrical science we're going to
have to learn how to rearrange certain
mathematical formulas in order to find
the value that we're looking for so
let's just look at a simple formula a
plus B equals C that's called an
equation why is it called an equation
because we have an equals sign
lots of electrical formula are going to
be with an equal sign they're going to
be equations and all that means is if we
can imagine that the equals sign is like
a set of scales it's a balance that side
has to equal this side and the rules for
transposition transposing the formulas
to rearrange it to find a different
value the value that you're trying to
find is called the subject so in this
formula a plus B equals C C is the
subject of the formula and if we want to
rearrange this formula to try and find B
then the rules are whatever we do to one
side of the equal sign we must do to the
other side to keep the balance so if we
were to add something on this side we
have to add something on this side to
keep the balance if we subtract
something on this side then we subtract
the same on that side to keep it
balanced it's always be balanced we'll
look at multiplication and division in a
few moments if I want to make be the
subject of this formula I need to get
rid of a I won't be on its own so how
can we get rid of a well let's just take
it away a - a whatever I do to one side
of the formula I must do to the other
to keep the balance so I have to minus a
off this side as
well see lines a now a - a just cancels
out and I'm left with B equals C - a B
equals C - a let me just go back to that
now I just want to run it through with
some numbers a plus B equals C let's
make a 1 and B 2 1 plus 2 equals 3 what
I just did in that previous example was
we will look for B on its own B was the
subject so it's like making to the
subject 1 plus 2 equals 3
now you know just by looking at the
numbers it's a lot easier than 2 equals
3 minus 1 how do I get that - on its own
in transposition we do the same if I
minus the 1 there I have 2 minus 1 there
what I do to one side of the equation I
do to the other side to keep the balance
1 minus 1 is nothing to equals 3 minus 1
let's look at a different formula let's
look at Ohm's law I equals V over our
current equals volts divided by
resistance we have a faction now the
last formula was a plus B equals C this
one we've now got a division here V
divided by R so what do we do here
what's a let's say we want to make V the
subject we want to get V on its own from
the rules of transposition whatever we
do to one side of the formula we must do
to the other if I want to get V on its
own I need to get rid of that are how
can I do that if I multiply this side by
r I have to multiply the other side by
are these ours
now cancel out I'm left with V by its
own five times R equals V we like to
express formula with the subject on the
left hand side so when we've worked it
through to get the value we're looking
for we just change that around so that
the subject is on the left so V equals I
times R now we tend to express Ohm's law
V equals I R we lose the x sine we lose
the multiplication sign so we can assume
in formula that when we see values like
this without a sign in between them you
can assume that it's a multiplication
it's a x we can assume that there is a
little x in there which is quite
important when it comes to transposing
let's go a little bit more complicated
now the formula for inductive reactance
if you all remember is X L equals 2 pi F
L bit more of a complicated formula but
still quite easy to transpose if we just
stick to the rules of transposition if I
say said to you let's make L the subject
of the formula what do we have to do
we've got to get rid of the 2 pi F in
order to get L on its own we have to get
rid of that so how can we do that we
need to be to cancel that out so let's
divide this side by 2 pi F whatever we
do to one side we must do to the other
to keep the balance X L therefore has to
be divided by 2 pi F 2 pi F divided by 2
pi F is 1 so we end up with L on its own
express it with the subject on the left
and you get help
equals XL
over 2pi f my final formula just for
this short video is going to be the
transformer formula V P over V s equals
and P over N yes this is a formula that
people find a little bit tricky to
rearrange to try and find the value so
let's just have a brief look at this now
if we wanted to find let's say NP on its
own whatever we do to one side of the
formula was - to the other side to keep
the balance how can I eliminate ns I
need to get NP on its own
this is a division here so let's do a
multiplication let's multiply that side
by n s what we do to one side we must do
the same to the other you multiplied
that side by n s NS now cancels out and
we're left with MP on its own put it on
the Left NP equals V P times n s over V
s
put the formula and again let's work out
a different value VP over V s equals NP
over and yes let's find a value that's
on the bottom because this takes a
little bit more working out let's say
that we want to find V s on its own I
need to get V s to the top line of the
formula otherwise it remains as a
fraction and we don't want that we need
to get this onto the top line so let's
start by getting rid of the V P so if we
divide this side by V P and this side by
V P then they'll cancel out VP divided
by VP is just 1 so we end up with 1 over
V s equals NP / NS x vp looking quite
complicated PS that we're trying to find
is still on the bottom of the formula we
want it on the top at this stage I think
it's better to take the rule that
whatever you do to one side you do to
the other so the easiest way to get that
to the top is just to invert it to turn
it upside down so if we turn that upside
down V s over 1 which is just V s then
we just need to turn this upside down so
put the NS and the VP on the top the MP
on the bottom so then V s equals L s
times VP divided by MP now I know
there's a lot to take in there but if
you replay the video a few times
hopefully you will begin to understand
how it works thank you
what's up see brushers welcome back to z
fever my name is freaky and today we're
going to be talking about transpose
functions here inside of ZBrush I've
covered it briefly in previous tutorials
but I do understand that this can be a
bit of a bit of a confusing tool at
first right so I wanted to hop in here
and kind of go over the use of this tool
and how we can um maximize its features
here inside of ZBrush so let's go ahead
and get started so basically all I have
is just an initialized Q cube here right
and you know so whenever you're
sculpting here inside of ZBrush right so
let's say I'm let me switch over to this
tool you know and you're in your regular
mode right you're going to notice up
here the draw mode is going to be active
right so that allows you to sculpt and
draw and do all that other cool stuff
but let's say we need to rotate some
things around move things around and you
don't really want to do that with a move
brush because you know all that's really
doing is pushing points around right and
that's not exactly what we want to do
and we really just want to keep the form
that we've worked so hard on right so we
can use our transpose functions and it's
just like um working in and uh say Maya
or max W e and R on the keyboard so if
you hit W it will bring you to move he
is going to bring you over to scale and
R is going to bring you over to rotate
right now whenever you do this C brush
it's going to give you this action line
right in this line uh you know it throws
a lot of people off right there like
what is this thing I'm not used to this
right because usually whenever you're in
a 3d package and you go to uh
those Translate tools right you know you
get you know something that shows you
the the points of the axes right so you
have your your X Y &amp; Z and so this can
this can't be a little bit confusing if
you're jumping in here so what does this
do
let me go ahead and solo this tool out
right and I'm going to turn on our poly
frame so we can count see what's going
on all right so you have your move right
and let me turn on the floor even though
we're kind of out in the middle of
nowhere so what this allows you to do is
it allows you to move things around
allows you to scale things right and
allows you to rotate things okay but um
you know whenever you hop it in here
it's like okay what is this line how
I'll use it okay so let's let's talk
about that so you have your transposed
line called the action line transpose ax
line whatever you want to call it it has
these these three rings right
and so these the jello orangish yellow
rings allow you to move the tool around
right so I can move it from here I can
also move it from here or I can move it
from this side right and this doesn't
matter whether you're in move scale or
rotate it all functions the same way
based on those circles right and let's
say you need to move this you know you
need to snap to different orientations
right well you have these buttons here
they'll allow you to do that quickly
okay or you can just click and drag and
hold shift and it will snap in
increments to get you to where you need
to go
also while holding shift you can just
isolate the direction that you need to
go you know my finger is not left the
shift button okay or you can just let go
shift and you know move
freely alright so that covers that
portion but let's talk about these inner
circles shall we so each one of these is
going to do something a little bit
different okay
and it depends on which tool that you're
using
okay so let's um let's start with this
one over here right and this is going to
be the furthest one from the origin
point right so origin point is wherever
you clicked and dragged it out from okay
so if we just hold if if we just click
this inner red circle right you'll see
that we'll start to skew the object you
know and you know this is kind of you
could almost look at it almost as like a
scale so to speak you do it in other
directions it doesn't really matter
right or if we're working in symmetry
right if I wanted to do the same thing
let me wear activate switcher there we
go so let's say we wanted to do this in
a symmetrical way right then we can do
both sides now one of the things to
notice is if I click and drag this way
it doesn't really work so well right um
that's fine
because you can use your masking tools
right so I can just mask here and then I
can do the same thing right so there's
always a way around okay so let me get
out of symmetry mode and uh so let's
talk about the middle circle so the
middle the middle red circle or white is
going to allow you to just move the
object in 3d space right and so you can
move it left and right and it's going to
be based on the direction of this line
right so if I click and drag that way
it's going to move along that line okay
it doesn't matter which way you go
that's that's the way it's going to
travel whenever you're holding shift
okay now we can also go from this side
right so if I just click and drag it's
an easy way to clip things right now
your geometry might get a little little
fuzzy here that lines still going to be
there still you know that edge is still
going to be there so you want to make
sure that you go and fix that or just
delete this right um so that covers the
boov portion of things let's look at
scale all right so a scale is going to
be based on it's going to be based on
where you dragged out from right
so if we hold shift and drag is going to
scale from the origin right so if we
want a scale from Center right we might
want to start from the center you know
so you need to make sure that you have
symmetry but you'll also notice that
it's going from the origin back in 3d
space as well so if that's a concern you
might want to work in symmetry so that
it maintains that line or you just click
on the normal there there again it's
going to scale downwards right okay so
you can you can scale that way or you
can also scale from the middle circle
right and it's going to scale based on
this direction right so let me turn off
symmetry real quick so there again it's
going to scale from that direction or if
I click and drag this way it's going to
scale vertically right and it's going to
be scaling based off of this line then
again we can just scale this way and
it's going to drag to the other side
right then let's move over to rotate and
then I'll show you once once we're done
with this I'll show you some some
practical uses because I have a model
that I've been using transpose with
quite a bit so if we're going to be
doing rotate my advice is to use it sort
of as like a lever so to speak right so
if we go from the the furthest from the
origin point is going to rotate based on
that point if we go from the origin
point itself
then it's going to go from the other
side right if we go from the middle
circle it's going to rotate based on the
line is going to rotate a round one
right so if you wanted to quickly rotate
this and notice whenever I'm clicking on
the surface right it's going to snap to
the normal of that surface so if you
have something that's you know got
curvature or whatnot you might want to
find the surface you might want to click
on an area that's going to be most
directly what you need right but if I
wanted to rotate this way allow me to
rotate pretty much from the center of
the object right so that's the basic
functionality of this right um
and I showed you on just a basic object
because you know it's you know we don't
want to get too inundated with things
here right but I've been working on this
model and I've been using a views
transpose quite a bit on it now let's
say you know I ran into some issues um
and I wanted to pose this this model
around I didn't really want to build a Z
sphere rig I just you know mmm it was
faster for me to go through and
position things with the transpose lines
and it was just to build Rick you know
and it's you know you can go that
direction if that's if that's what works
for you but you know you don't have to
then why why do it but let me show you
how how quickly we can get things done
here right so I'm going to grab my
rotate and just using the same functions
I'm clicking from the origin and I'm
holding shift because I want to make
sure that it is going based off of this
camera angle that I'm looking at right
now so if if I turn this right you'll
see that it's it's facing the direction
now you can also just click and drag one
surface right and it's going to rotate
on that surface which might be a better
alternative because you want to make
sure that you're not you know if you're
working on Anatomy you want to make sure
that you're not breaking things right
see this is it this is a good way to
just rotate from that anchor point but
you want to remember that it's cool it
is definitely going to rotate from that
point so you want to make sure that
wherever you're clicking is what's going
to work best so like I said just use
this as kind of a lever and it'll make
your life much much easier okay so um
same thing is with everything else you
know you can scale things up all that
cool stuff now let's say you know what
you you can see that with this model
I've gone through and I've chopped
things up and I just did that for you
know for ease on myself but let's say I
was working on something not just needed
you know something to just needed to
move
this leg real quick or I just needed to
angle this this bottom portion of the
leg well what you can do is you can
utilize your your masking features right
so if I hold ctrl and then drag out on
the surface it's going to follow the
topology of the surface let me zoom out
a little bit right
and then by using that turn off the
floor here and by using that you know
you can save yourself some time right
you know or you know what I'll probably
end up doing in this situation is
probably just masking it myself but you
can see in in certain situations this
will this will work to your benefit it's
usually best if you're working with um
some better topology but you can see I
can mask this off and then I can
continue to rotate let students use this
like looks like it was having a little
trouble with those angles but you can
see you can come in here masse this off
and then you know soften that mask a
little bit and you can come back in with
your rotate right and knowing that I
want it to rotate from here right
then I can just come through and rotate
things as I need them to be now you'll
see that the the geometry kind of
crashes and everything like that which
is part of the reason why I broke things
up because I knew that the geometry was
going to crash and it would give me some
problems with with the dynamesh later on
down the line and rather than having to
go back and build things up I'd rather
just break things off and then read on
omission later the last little portion
that I want to talk about here is use of
poly groups so we turn on the poly frame
and show you how we can use polygroups
to our advantage with transpose line
okay um so I'm going to just draw on a
mask Musil lasso
there we go and if I have control W on
the keyboard it'll convert that to its
own polygroup okay now what I can do
while I'm while I'm here is let's say I
wanted to in I could go through and I
can break this into further polygroups
based on the knuckles right but let's
say I wanted to just work on that
polygroup right what I can do is I can
while I'm and rotate move or scale if I
just hold ctrl on the keyboard and click
it's going to mask that okay so this is
a really good way to work if you already
know what it is that you want to get
done you know like I said I'll probably
go through and break these up because
this piece is not going to be animated
I'm actually probably going to move it
to 3d print at some point in time but
that's oh that's a quick way to to get
things done here the one other really
awesome feature of the transpose line is
that you know whenever when we're
working with with models we're working
with Anatomy right we have to pay
attention to proportions and I can tell
you just by looking at this the the
proportions are definitely off but if I
want to make sure that
I'm working with some sort of
I'll make sure that I'm working with
with some sort of guidelines right what
I can do is I can is I can set these
units right and so how we're going to do
this is we're going to go into our
preferences and down in our preferences
we can go to transpose units and then we
can calibrate we can calibrate our
transpose line right so if I want to
work on this model and make sure that
you know I'm making sure that it's in
you know however many heads that I've
chosen to work with then I can measure
that head and then I can calibrate that
distance so if I set that to one right
you'll make sure that this line is based
off units of unit measurements of the
head you can even you go in further if
you wanted to you know but I'm going to
just leave it at it as is but you'll see
that um now I have this calibration
distance of one head so if I want to
come through and measure the arm you
know then I can quickly figure out what
is what is where and what needs to be
fixed so that you know my models don't
end up in you know Scott Eden's gallery
abominate you know which I I wouldn't
find quite an honor if he happened to
actually look at my work and do that to
it but anyway um so this is uh this is a
good way to this is one of the more
powerful things I don't think that it
gets enough attention you know this this
tool has multiple uses and with uh you
know just just getting in there and
playing around with things and gaining
an understanding of how we can use this
tool it'll make your life here in ZBrush
much much easier right and then um one
other thing that I forgot about is that
let's say I'm working on this this arm
you can you can actually use a
transposed it with other features so if
I hold alt long and move mode and click
that center circle you know you can
initiate things around now obviously we
won't do that to this but um you know
get in there play around with this you
know don't be afraid of it you know
there's there's always a you know
there's always a bit of a learning curve
whenever you jump into any new software
package so just don't be afraid of it
don't be afraid to you know mess things
up because you know what the part of the
fun of doing what we do is to mess
things up you're not going to learn any
other way
all right so I realized that it's been
quite some time since I posted anything
but I want to thank you guys for hanging
around you know if you new please
subscribe definitely check us out on
Facebook just look us up at Z fever
there are some I've got a lot of really
cool tools in there that you guys can
use lots of alphas brushes things of
that nature
Matt caps and all that cool stuff so you
know even if you just need resources
head over there grab them and you know
just say hi alright guys well one thank
you for watching have a great day
if you're not watching the ZBrush summit
definitely check it out otherwise take
care guys
happy zbrushing
welcome to a lesson on the transpose of
a matrix the goals of this video are to
define the transpose of a matrix define
a symmetric matrix give the properties
of transpose matrices and also to
determine the transpose of a given
matrix the transpose of an N by M matrix
a is an M by n matrix written using this
notation here where we have a with a
superscript of capital T and we say the
transpose of matrix a again notice how
if the dimensions of matrix a is n by M
the transpose matrix will have the
dimensions M by N and there are several
ways to form the transpose of a matrix
one way is to write the rows of matrix a
as the columns of the transposed matrix
a or we can write the columns of matrix
a as the rows of the transpose of matrix
a we can also express this using this
notation here if we focus on the
subscripts here notice how these
elements have row I column J and the
transpose matrix has row J column I
again we're interchanging the rows and
columns if matrix a is equal to the
transpose of matrix a then we say a is
called a symmetric matrix let's take a
look at two examples of transposing a
given matrix I would like to start with
the dimensions notice matrix a is a
three by two matrix so that means the
transpose of matrix a will be a two by
three matrix
so I'm going to do is go through each
row in matrix a and make it the
corresponding column in the transpose of
matrix a since Row 1 has elements 4
negative 3 column 1 in the transposed
matrix will have elements 4 and negative
3 Row 2 has elements 1 and 6 so column 2
will have elements 1 &amp; 6 column 3 has
elements negative 5 &amp; 2 so column 3 will
have elements negative 5 and positive 2
we now have the transpose of matrix a
notice matrix B is a three by three
matrix so the transpose of matrix B will
also be a three by three matrix again
we're going to take the elements in the
rows and make them the columns of the
transposed matrix Row one has elements 1
0 negative 2 which means in the
transpose matrix column 1 will have
elements 1 0 negative 2 row 2 has
elements 3 4 negative 1 this will form
column 2 in the transposed matrix Row
three forms column 3 in the transposed
matrix so negative 5 negative 1 and
positive 7 so just to emphasize this
notice how Row one became column 1 Row 2
became column 2 and Row 3 became column
3 and the same thing for our first
example Row 1 column 1 Row 2 column 2
and Row 3 column 3 now let's talk about
the properties of transpose matrices
property one is telling us that the
transpose of the sum of matrix a and B
is equal to the transpose of matrix a
plus the transpose of matrix B property
two is telling us the transpose of the
transpose of matrix a is just equal to
matrix a property 3 the
transposed of a scalar times matrix a is
equal to a scalar times the transpose
that matrix a and then property for
might be little surprising this is
telling us the transpose of matrix a
times matrix B is equal to the transpose
of matrix B times the transpose of
matrix a remember matrix multiplication
is not commutative so it is important to
recognize in this property the order of
multiplication is changing property five
if a is an N by n an invertible matrix
then the transpose that matrix a is also
invertible and the inverse of the
transpose of matrix a is equal to the
transpose of the inverse of matrix a and
then the last property matrix a times
the transpose of matrix a is equal to
the transpose of matrix a times the
transpose of matrix a and since these
are equal a times the transpose of a is
a symmetric matrix meaning if we take
this product and then find the transpose
of it it'll be the same matrix let's
take a look at an illustration of this
last property we're given matrix a we're
asked to find the transpose of matrix a
and then also to find the product of
matrix a and its transpose so notice
that matrix a is a 2 by 3 matrix so it's
transpose will be a 3 by 2 matrix so
we'll have 3 rows and 2 columns so the
first row in matrix a will make up the
first column of our transpose matrix and
the second row will make up the second
column of our transpose matrix so we'll
have 5 0 negative 2 and 6 1 3 and now
we're asked to find this product let's
go ahead and set this up we have a 2 by
3 and a 3 by 2 since these two values
are the same the product is possible and
then the outer numbers tell
is the dimension of our product so this
product will be a two by two matrix so
to find this element here in Row one
column one going to multiply a row one
by column one so we have five times five
that's twenty five plus zero plus
positive four that's twenty nine here
we're in Row one column two so I
multiply Row one by column two so with
five times six that's 30 plus zero plus
negative six thirty plus negative six is
positive 24 here we're in row two column
one so I'll multiply Row 2 by column one
of 30 plus zero plus negative six that's
24 and here we're in Row two column two
so I'll multiply a row two by column two
so we have 36 plus one that's 37 plus 3
times 3 or plus nine that's going to be
46 let's go ahead and call this matrix B
and just to illustrate this property
let's go ahead and find the transpose of
matrix B so Row one here will form
column 1 and Row 2 will form column 2 so
we have 29 24 and we have 24 46 notice
how matrix B and the transpose the
matrix B are equal to each other and
this will always be true okay I hope you
found this helpful thank you for
watching
good trans function put down in general for
it serves to change the tone
no keyboard you need to change your
hand
so let's assume something more
It happens especially the personal touches
church I played many years also in
leandro church also happens
whatever begins to rehearse a song
C major with the whole band and
Suddenly comes the singer and talk like okay
low that tone then you spent
month preparing that song you already
decorated as it comes to that music
in C major all parts and such
and then the blessed singer singer is
undertone him decide to change the tone of
good music for those who play down the guys
are in heaven just get out and
walk a house for example two houses
for us from touching doi aft flat
is a disgrace is because changes
completely typing and everything
then you could for example that
if I want to sound in D flat I
ing stump and puts the transposition
I'll do one more
I am rising 1 cm pitch then the number
Shipping is always more or less
semitones or I'm playing in 2
was another country where music in reverse
the flat is that it is actually a form
Lazy means you learn is
I really only use for emergencies
for example once I was not playing
even know if people know this but has
instruments that are transpositions
the saxophone in B flat when he
is reading a dollar on the score he
He is playing actually a sibemol had
once I went to play with friends
just we had all
scores only sorry that I played and sweated
sibemol logical that we are musicians
professionals already know what to do
I did I got my keyboard
put there - second played all equal legend
I was in the score and the gang itself
flat then all was quiet he
He managed to make the whole event without
no problem ok then that's it
hey what's going on guys this is Casey I
wish that someone had taken the time to
teach me how to play in the key of a all
I had to do was play preacher chords in
a-flat and preacher chords in the key of
D flat and now would sound absolutely
amazing in the key of a I just wish
someone had kind of sat down with me
because what you're about to see this
one-minute clip actually took place it's
a true story I'm embarrassed to say but
hey you know what we learn from our
mistakes I'm not too big or too popular
to where I can't reveal my
vulnerabilities I was very inadequate
and playing in the key of a but all it
needed all I need it really was a
10-minute lesson has someone just sat
down with me with for 10 minutes to show
me what I'm getting ready to show you
guys I'm going to show you the secrets
to sound amazing in the key of A so
watch this clip and then I'll be right
back
this guy is nice on the keys
nice nice touch nice westcoast way the
only problem is they get rid of mine
delayed over half step and I don't know
if he's ready
this is embarrassed embarrassed we have
to transpose but net there is too
should I push the UP button make sure
nobody's looking yeah man yeah you need
to go on and push that plus one button
because you think you embarrassing us
I'm going to look at him and this guy I
got the book bag on got the westcoast
click try going nice MKS rolling Blin
you know I mean but look at this it's
not ready not ready hey what's going on
guys I am back from that video that was
very embarrassing it was very true it
did happen but I learned from my
mistakes basically I learned the song in
one key and never imagined the choir
director would tell me to go up to the
next key and so when they did to go what
but the truth came out I could not
really play fluid fluent you know in the
key of a but I've learned that there
aren't really any keys that you can't
play in I think what happens is you keep
saying oh I can't play an AI can't plan
D well if you keep saying it then you
won't be able to but believe it or not
you are already playing a you just don't
know it I'm going to show you some
preacher chords in a flat and some
preacher chords and D flat I know I have
some international followers who don't
even know what preacher chords are
because they're so used to me doing jazz
and you know different things like that
but I'm going to take you to church and
you church gospel musicians you're going
to be playing in a within five minutes I
promise you that or your money back
oh this is a free lesson so it's really
no money back but check this out in five
minutes I'm going to prove to you you
can play in the key of a you can delays
and do some amazing things
again I'm just kind of playing through
the course
so you can get a feel of what I'm doing
here
you
and then what he did hear us
and again I'm just trying to phrase
through the song in the key of a and in
if you were to just listen to this you'd
think that I am very very fluent in the
key of a but I'm really not I'm just
playing preacher chords and a flat and
preacher chords in D flat and I'm just
kind of moving in between keys and just
using different variations so again this
this first part is for advanced
musicians but the second part is going
to be for the or the I slow it down for
the beginners those who don't even know
what preacher chords are so um so here
we go um what he did he started off and
I'm gonna start off in the key of e 1 2
3 4 or 5
that's a skilled stick scale degree and
then left hand I'm just gonna go down
half steps bah bah bah bah and then skip
alright so you put it together
and then
again this is for the advance I'll slow
it down for those of you who don't know
what I'm talking about okay so uh
that's to God
watch this be the wall
now let me break that down right this
little lick here
is nothing but preacher causing a flat
watch this hallelujah now I'm not a
preacher but I'm at like I'm when I'm at
like I'm backing up the preacher
hallelujah come on put your hands
together
and the word said in John 3:16 for God
so loved the world man let me keep this
thing moving so we know where those are
preacher chords that you can use an
a-flat but believe it or not that's be
the glory all right now slow down for
you now these West Coast musicians they
do a lot of slurs Jason white and some
of the other artists they do a lot of
slurs and that's not really the way I
play believe it or not I'm just playing
like this for the sake of teaching the
video so let me show you how that goes
it's like this is the first chord so you
just roll into it be watch this next
chord watch this
that's another slur there right our
right hand is you can see the notes
there on the screen
we
to God now I'm in the key of E I'm
playing shout shout cores or preach of
course to be are so so - ah and then
this little lick here
all right that's a little move you can
doing me and again I'll slow this down
all right I'm just moving fast because
the the advance musicians they are kind
of ATD date night they're not gonna sit
here and watch me just spell out
everything so I'll spell it out a little
later so so to God
watch this FIFA hey what I did was I
went to the kids F and I just did five
one four seven three six I mean you can
do any kind of combination in any of
those little movements because I know
you're advanced you kind of know where
I'm going with that again for the
beginning students I'll break that down
but what I did was be though five one
four seven three six and then to the
three in the key of E and I'm do that
same little walk down boom boom boom
watch it boom
to God so
now believe it or not I'm playing in a
key of D flat I'm doing my preacher
chords in D flat now hallelujah come on
put your hands together hallelujah any
worthy
all right so that little move there
hallelujah oh yeah he's good yeah that's
all that is I'm just playing I'm just
using preacher chords there so um
to God Pisa and then glory all right so
let me slow this down for the beginning
musicians who don't know what in the
world is going on but basically what I'm
playing is I'm playing the song to God
and I'm gonna go even slower
we bump bump again that's pretty boys
and a flat - now I'm going to the key of
B - a little move you can use there
Beefalo
three or you can do simple be the glow
Green that was just 736 beaver in the
key of F and then flat six six all right
now because you're a beginner I'm going
to go even slower so I'm gradually
moving from the advanced people because
they've already kind of learned the
licks and now I'm going slower them I'm
gonna break it down note by note so here
we go to God here's the break down to
God I went to the key of a they're just
a chord and then I'm gonna do this
little worship move again west coast
musicians they love doing Osler so my
right hand is doing this left hand is
doing this so
so and then here's B the glory be
now let me break that down because I
know you're a beginner and not always
just looking at the notes on the screen
really help you out I'm going to kind of
spell it out so here's B and I'm a
slurring to the B B this is the preacher
chord that the advanced musicians they
already kind of know that part but I'm
gonna slow down for you so here's bee
bee bee right hand left hand is here
right hand is here though and then watch
this glow so I slowed into glory oh and
this is right hand left hand this is
still a part of that preacher just
preacher chords that we use on a flat
and then close out Reed and then work
your way out of it like this in this
left hand right hand and then we're
gonna work our way out of this re boom
boom it's just a nice little feel so
here's Reed boom boom
to God now I'm gonna give be hallelujah
to God and that right hand is a slur to
God left hand watch this move boom boom
boom boom boom boom so my right hand
started here and it ended here so to God
boom boom join them together and then
boom boom boom I'll do it again to God
and then watch this be the now I'm going
to go to the key of F be the the
simplified way will be like this
blow I'm sorry
reading now of course Jason wine did not
do that move that's just me my ATD you
know kicking in and I just I can just do
all kind of weird crazy stuff in the
middle of a song so I'm going to show
you why I did what I did here so be tha
here's a 736 movement I'll do it again
be the mean and do a slower be the right
hand along with the left hand
diminish
last chord
so be the green watch this close it out
on that's an E chord I'm sorry REE so
it's real clean and then you close it
out bone bone bone that's the same way
we open it up boom boom boom washes
to God all right so five six seven then
you do this left hand put a bone bone
all right so is
to come
be the low B alright let me break that
down go down down that's that first one
boom boom
right hand
boom next court and that court right
there where the right hand is this again
West Coast musicians they have really
made this a staple the slurs so
so left hand is put a boom bam bam
ba-bam bam bam
all right right hand this court again
these are preacher chords in the key of
D flat hallelujah
I don't have a bass player women
Alleluia and then watch this
me though I know a lot of cars doing us
that weird move
clovie or just clean flowy and then
let's left hand so let's put it together
you can do that's real plane.b though
and again I'm just it seems like I'm
kind of creating as we go along because
I really am because I'm not playing in
the key of a and my brain I'm planning
like d-flat right now I'm just I don't
have time to think of a like that
because I'm not well-versed in a like I
am and like a flat and B flat but now
I'm doing moves in a that I can't even
do in a flat I sound better now and a
because I'm doing tricks these preacher
courses I've been planning on my life so
let's move that chord again that's that
last chord or you can do this
to be the
alright that move there is
to God and then what I did here is
right hand with the left hand next chord
next chord
and I've kind of I taught this in
another series but I was just breaking
here
we won't be and again I don't have a lot
of time to really spend on breaking this
song down because I don't want to
reteach Jason white song and another key
but really the purpose of this video is
to show you that you can play an A you
can play in D you just got to know what
to use and when to use it so if I get
enough support if I get enough thumbs up
on this video and that just tells me
that people are watching the video and
that they can actually benefit from it
because I don't want to waste time
teaching things that people can't
benefit from and using real-life
situations so if I get enough thumbs up
share this on your Facebook post I'm not
looking for popularity I'm just looking
to be used I believe in dying empty
that's been my slogan from day one some
people are called to be professional
musicians to go on tour into perform and
I thought that that's really what I
wanted to do but I really don't care
about performing
I really don't really play play live I
don't really care to play live like the
way I'm doing right now really I really
feel like my calling in life is to teach
is to reveal the secrets that's that's
it I believe that a lot of musicians
want to hold on to their secrets and
things like that or it make fun of
people who can't play in certain keys so
they put you know Facebook posts and
things like that how about you can't
play in certain keys really anybody can
play in every key it's just knowing what
to use and when to use it so that's
really the purpose of this video that's
really it it's not about pressing the
transpose button because there are times
where I have to use it to be perfectly
honest there have been times where I've
been playing or I learned a certain song
and a certain key and then all of a
sudden the choir director feels the
spirit and they're led by the Lord who
key up a half-step and the Lord and
running by me that they were going to do
that so the Lord told me to push the
transpose up button because the devil
will be busy in that church service
because I'd be looking like I did in
that one minute video so anyway I'm not
going to waste time talking and waste
your time I hope that you enjoyed some
of the licks and things that you can use
in the key of a to sound absolutely
amazing so again I appreciate all the
support all the love on Facebook you
know I respond to all men
I have about a 95% rating on Facebook
about people send me messages I will
respond most times and a lot of times I
don't look at me and my wife we're on
the page together so you know how it is
when you got a joint account your wife
scrolling through she clicking on
messages and honey I do love you
huh but when she clicks on the message I
don't show it didn't show a new alert on
my phone or my my computer so a lot of
times I can miss it but what I've done
every day I make it my point to go
through the messages and see what it's
come through so if you want to reach me
directly that's a good way to do it also
email but I get a lot of emails
throughout the day I mean at least 10 15
20 emails a day from musicians who have
questions about different things but I
can't always get back to those but
Facebook I got you covered
so that's Kevin and Danielle Connolly
and that's that's our Facebook page so
again thank you so much for the love
thank you for the support and if I get
enough likes hey man I might do a series
of videos on tricks that you can do to
expand in these weird kind of keys
thanks again
hello welcome to teach me math my name
is jonathan hicks and we're doing
transposition now i've already done an
intro to transposition video so if
you're not sure what transposition is
sometimes it's called rearranging
equations go and watch that video first
and I'll explain what it is and why we
do it you also need to know how to solve
equations transfer position at the end
of the day is solving equations it's
just that a lot of the numbers have been
replaced by letters you're not really
doing anything different from what you
would do when you solve an equation it
just looks very different and that can
put people off sometimes but make sure
your confidence offering equations
before you come on to this now we're
going to be following exactly the same
method that I did in the solving
equations videos so just quickly to
remind you what that method is step one
when solving equations is always to
remove fractions step two is to remove
brackets step threes move added and
subtracted terms and then finally we
always divide by the number next to the
letter
now I split the solving equations videos
into four to follow those four steps so
we started with the easy ones where
you're just doing the last step and then
we had steps three and four together
and then we did brackets as well as
steps three and four and then we did all
four steps together with the fractions
I'm going to do the same thing for
transposition so in this first video I'm
just going to transpose equations that
involve the last step then we'll
gradually make it harder over the next
few videos until we can do the whole lot
of ones all right so as I say in this
video the step we care about is divided
by the number next to the letter now let
run let me remind you how you do that
for a normal equation first and then
we'll come on to the transposition
so perhaps put that over here because
I'm going to refer back to it a few
times so if we have 2x equals 6 so in
theory we would check the four steps
here fractions no fractions brackets no
brackets added or subtracted terms no
added or subtracted terms so the only
thing we have to do is the final step
which is divided by the number next to
the letter the number next letter is two
so we divide both sides by two a little
divided by 2 on both sides the reason we
do that is because these 2's will cancel
which will leave you with the X by
itself and 6 divided by 2 is obviously 3
so that was easy that
how you solve equations where you're
only using the last step you're only
dividing by the number next to the
letter in this case - all right let me
give you an equivalent example for
transposition so if we have a y equals x
and imagine in the question it tells you
that you want to get the Y by itself now
I'm going to put that over here in a
circle so I don't forget often the
question will say transpose and then it
gives you the equation four and then it
gives you a letter so it might say
transpose a y equals X for Y and that
means you want to get the Y by itself
the Y is the letter we care about you
want to put everything else on the other
side and leave the Y by itself on one
side of the equation just going back to
this that's the equivalent of getting
the X by itself when we solve equations
we're always trying to get the letter by
itself on one side with everything else
on the other side because if all the
numbers on the other side you can work
out what that number is and you've
solved your equation we did this same
thing here but because we've got all
letters here there are no numbers we
need to know which letter is the
important letter the letter we want to
get by itself now I say there are no
numbers here actually they're all
numbers remember that everything in
algebra is a number every letter you see
just reference an unknown number but as
I explained in the intro video sometimes
we want to rearrange these equations
before we put the numbers in so the
important thing to note at the start is
which letter do you want to get by
itself that's the letter we care about
so when we come on to our final step
well let's quickly check through the
other steps first fractions no fractions
brackets no brackets added or subtract
terms nope so the last thing is we
divide by the number next to the letter
now which is the letter there are three
letters it's that one it's the letter we
care about they'll always tell you what
that is in the question so we divide by
the number next to the Y we have the
number next to the letter number next to
the Y and the number next to the Y is a
remember that a is a number so we're
going to divide everything by a just
like here when we have 2x equals 6 we
divided everything by 2 because that was
the number next to the letter over here
because we care about the Y we're going
/ the number next to it we're going to
divide by the a so on both sides you
divide by a so divided by a divided by a
just like we did here the reason we do
that is because the a is here will
cancel and I'll leave you with the Y by
itself just like the twos canceled and
left you with the X by itself and then
here you got X divided by a now if we
knew what those numbers were if we had
six and two for example we could work
out what it gives you in this case it
gives you three but we don't yet know
what the numbers are remember we're
going to be repeating our experiments
and putting different numbers in here
each time so we don't worry about what
that's going to give us we know that
it's going to be x divided by a and
that's what we care about we'll put the
numbers in later we've managed to get
the Y by itself though that's what
matters that's what they've asked to do
is asked us to do in the question so you
stop there that will be our answer if
you rearrange the original equation a y
equals x you get y equals x over a so
actually although it looks very strange
it's easier than solving equations
because you never actually have to work
anything out if you're dividing you just
write it as a fraction you don't have to
work out what six divided by two is
because you're going to put the numbers
in at a later date right let me do
another one
once you've seen a couple of these you
should get the hang of it so imagine the
question says transpose P equals Q R for
R so they're telling you they want you
to get the R by itself and everything
else on the other side so there are no
fractions no brackets no added or
subtracted term so the only step we need
to worry about is divided by the number
next to the letter which letter do we
care about it's R so we're going to
divide by the number next to the R and
looking at this the number next to the R
is the Q remember that Q is a number
everything here is a number so we're
going to divide both sides by Q just
like we do here yeah we were dividing by
2 because that was the number next
letter here they were going to divide by
Q because that's the number next to the
letter we care about so divided by Q
/ queue those queues will cancel which
will leave you with the are by itself
and there's nothing else to do here we
don't need to work it out you just write
P divided by Q and that's your answer
some people like to put the letter that
we're trying to get by itself on the
left so some people might flip it round
at the end and that's fine you can do
that if you want to so BR equals P
divided by Q like that either way around
is fine
remember the equal sign means that the
things on either side are the same it
doesn't mean and the answer is so either
way around this fine okay now this can
get slightly more difficult when you've
got other things involved although
actually it's not any more difficult you
do exactly the same thing it just looks
a bit different so next one we'll have C
x equals a plus two finally I'm
including this to show that you can have
numbers as well sometimes you get
equations that do involve numbers as
well as letters so imagine the question
says that we want the X by itself I
always put this here in a little circle
so that I don't forget when there's a
lot of letters swimming around it's very
easy to forget which letter we care
about which letter would try to get by
itself so if you put it here in a little
circuit you'll never forget that's the
one I need by itself
alright so fractions no brackets no add
in the subtracted terms well yes
technically we've got an added term here
but our letters are all on one side and
all the added and subtracted terms are
on the other side so we don't need to
worry about that
the last step we divide by the number
next to the letter that's the lesser we
care about the number next to this
letter is the C so we're going to divide
everything by C so the thing that
confuses people is often this but it's
honestly very easy to deal with you
divide by C on the left and then you
divide by an in algebra when you write
divided by you just do a big fraction
you divide by C on the right that's how
you do it the C's or cancel which leaves
you with the X by itself and then you
can't work out what this is
you don't know what a and C are so you
can't do any kind of simplifying or
working out don't mess with it just
write it down exactly as it is so it's
going to be a plus to oversee one big
fraction and that's your answer the X
the number you care about is by itself
everything else is on the other side so
you've rearranged the equation now this
can feel pointless it can feel like what
are we doing we're just moving the
letters around as I say go and watch the
transposition intro video if you haven't
done yet and that'll explain why this is
so useful in practice this is really
useful but if you don't know why you
just have to sort of take my word for it
unless you as I say watch the intro
video that I'll explain why we do this
but that's it for the last step it
really is that simple you divide by the
number next letter usually that kid just
gives you a big fraction and you just
write out the answer like that so go
watch transposition too to know how to
deal with added and subtracted terms
when they get involved but that's all
you really need to know for this one my
name is Jonathan Hicks and you're
watching teach me maths
you
hi today we'll be talking about
transposing or restructuring the data so
we'll be talking about croc transpose
and what exactly we are trying to do
here is we are trying to turn the
variables into observations or turn the
observations into variable what do I
mean by that
now let's have a look at this example in
this example we have two variables
student and Marx and this is the data
lines for those variables so we have a
student a and the marks for the student
eight so we have three marks for the
student a and all three marks are
entered this way while for student B
again we have three marks and they are
enter vertically so we don't want it
that way we want in something like this
we have a student a and we want the data
to be arranged in columns for so
probably one marks one box two and marks
three for student B again we want the
data to be arranged something like this
how do we do that now doing this is very
simple with proc transpose so let's have
a look at it so so let's first see how
our data looks so this is how our data
looks we have the student and we have
the moxx and let's just arrange this
data so we have proc and suppose and the
data that we are using the data set that
we are using is data that's simple and
we will be getting the result in another
data set and we call it simpler ok and
that's it for now and we want to arrange
the data set by student so we use a bi
statement we call it by and then we see
student and the variable that we have to
distribute in the columns is our marks
so we call it war marks and then we run
it and then we give a prop
prynt 2cr riddles
okay so here we go exactly as we wanted
so we wanted to have a student a and the
marks of the student a arranged here and
we wanted to have a student B and the
marks of the student be arranged here
and we got that but what did we get here
this is an extra variable an automatic
variable that was created and it just
tells us the variable that we used to
distribute or to transpose so this is
the variable that we transposed marks
let an ask column heading we got the
default column headings that is called
one call to and call three now we don't
want this really able to show we know
that these are marks and we want these
column heading all one call to all three
to be called as mark one marks to mark
three so let's do one thing at a time so
let's start with changing the name for
this column heading so we'll do that by
adding one simple option here we call it
prefix equal see much right so let's see
what do we get with this yes exactly as
we wanted so what the option prefix does
is it replaces this call with whatever
prefix we have given and one two one
three remains the same next we want to
drop this variable so we want to drop
this variable out of the new data set
that we got so how do we do that since
this variable is present in the new data
set so we just put an option in front of
the new data set simpler we say drop is
equal to underscore name so that was a
new variable so hopefully that should do
the job
yes and here we get a
transposed data set okay now okay let's
go to the next example and in this next
example we will try to understand all
these options a little bit more so in
this example I have data marks
underscore here and I have three
variables to ID here and marks now what
I have again is student ID as 1 1 1 and
we have the marks for every year we have
marks for 1996 1997 1998 and similarly
for student 2 we have marks for 96 and
we don't have marks of 1998 for student
2 and student 3 we have 96 97 98 student
4 is you know it's not there we have
student 5 wherein we have only one max
so again we have to arrange the data
something like this you know we want to
have student 1 and then we have to have
1996 1997 and 1998 and then we have to
have student 1 over here and arrange
marks like this 630 564 76 now we wanted
to put these here as you know the
criteria to decide the column name and
column number for example if we had 4
years we would like we would have like a
4th column here as 1999 we don't have
that so we want it to be 3 columns so we
want that to be decided automatically so
visually we want the student ID to
decide the observation so we have it
here as second student as here and then
the student ID 3 and then we want it to
be 5 we don't have 4 right so that's how
we want the arrangement so let's see how
we can do it again we go ahead with proc
transpose and here this time we have
used the data marks underscore here and
our output data is arranged underscore
marks now we have u student ID similar
to what we have used in previous example
but this time we have
used one more option that is ID is here
what this ID does is it gives the column
heading you can say it decides the
heading for the column right then we
have variable marks which we are
distributing okay are transposing so the
variable are the ones which we are
transposing and now let's run the
program I'm running the whole you know
preliminary data on the second data so
that we can compare here we go so this
was our original data set wherein we
have student ID and now let's see how it
is array we have exactly the way we want
it so on a 1996 next what we do is we
will drop that extra variable which you
don't want that variable was in our our
data set so this time you should be
knowing it what I will do is draw equal
underscore name okay now what this does
is it will drop that data set okay so
here we got it now there's one more
thing we can do instead of dropping it
probably we can give it another heading
and you know probably it may help us
identify which variable with you be used
to yeah so this is a variable transposed
okay let's see what it does so we have
given an option name is equal to
variable underscore transposed and so
that heading of underscore name
underscore is now it gives us variable
transposed and here we get the list of
the variables that has been transposed
so every time since we have used only
one variable for transposing we get
marks in each column in future examples
we will see when we use two variables
for transposing so hopefully that makes
it clear till now and
now this time I'll bring about one more
point when we are using a buy statement
so till now we have been using a buy
statement over here now let's change a
data set a little bit so let's just put
this value cut it out from here and put
this value at the end now what's changed
in this data set is the arrangement
let's do that with one more value okay
okay now let's run this so we have a
data set which is not sorted because we
call it a new observation arrange marks
one and we'll print that arraign works
one and do that or get once again so
this is here I run it and I don't get an
output I get an error
what error do I get I get an error that
says data set work dot marks and the
score is not sorted in ascending
sequence so what does that mean that
simply means that for using a buy
statement our original paid and data set
should be sorted with that by variable
so that's one preliminary requirement to
use by statement since our data was
already sorted you know when we use this
buy statement before in our previous
examples we do not have any problem but
now when our data is not sorted we get a
problem so to fix that it's simple we
just run a proc sort procedure procs or
data equal two marks here so we turn up
rock salt on that by its to ID and here
and once we run a proc sort and then we
do this proc transpose our problem is
solved so what did we see till now to
summarize we saw that we can use a proc
transpose for restructuring our data
wherein we can convert variable into
observations so what
used was a command prompt transpose we
used it by variable that determines you
know the variable that will make the ID
and then we use a variable that we want
to transpose and then in next we also
learnt about an ID variable so we
learned about by then we used ID ID here
here which makes which identifies the
column and variable marks which were the
way which was variable that we
distribute we also learnt about how we
can give an option of draw equal to
underscore name or how we could change
the name of the variable this automatic
variable here okay so so I'll stop here
and I'll continue with more of the
transpose in the next part
thank you
you
you
fold faith is to give as change
fast pitch and start thinking
in degrees instead of chords
today I will give a cool tip for
you start thinking in terms of
degree and not in chord when you are
touched world
this will help you to transpose with
much easier
so I wrote on the board basically
Dollar pride field between then
I have here the degrees up here all right
degrees here and here I have a chord
then the first harmonic field
chord or
second rehn lower third is smaller
there will only spend less e mail
tiny that here is the harmonic field
most of the dollars I want to show
for you see you think had
thing when you see you a simple
see these chords and once you think
them you have to be thinking about
what is the degree related to this agreement
because if you start playing for
degree you will be able to play in 12
communities without any problems'll
give an example imagine that you have a
music dies
this church was in the band you run
I do not know but you have a sequence
that a easy sequence
A minor come and taste the
concept of playing both following you
already memorized my recommendation is
you do not memorize sequence but
memorize 1 6 4 here one part
and 15 which it is a dominant thing in 1st
Fourth and fifth 6
so instead of belonging to write
fascinates me your head you should think
this plant is good that would be
result strings progression because
the hand I've been playing this way and if
not only by the cutting it is not
that suppose if you are a
unthinkable way to have as its
musical future because this will help
you
suppose you want to turn
this song to harry never a
harmonic have their real
chords on the guitar solo or C minor
sharp very minute
so if I have to memorize 12
shades with their degrees
I can play this sequence
any shade without problems
then the first degree here would reverse
federal being the less prominent in rs
smaller hall which came sun and insert
a home
if I want to play this who I am as
which is the first is the first agreement
in sun is sun is the sixth smallest which is the
fourth hurts is the fifth mec just looks
It is as easy and as if this would
crossed a tonality and the largest
rugged going is so easy feared
first grade would be easy tenido sixth
having lower degree remains is why is
the sixth
chord is penina s fourth and fifth
confectioner's C - sharp look
lack put his hand on without keyboard
need to spend hours practicing I have
I know with any degree touch
personality with any degree function
that there is not too difficult
talk fast way over
contention
once you get to practice
think of degree to be all much more
easy if you liked to study a
curtain down here in any doubt
leave a comment you have no doubt
but like the video leaves a
comment I am very happy
I read all the reviews we get
see in the next video
[Music]
with the transpose function in Excel you
can take data that's arranged
horizontally and display it vertically
or vice versa and you keep the links to
the original data so if something
changes here it would also change in the
display data with the transpose function
so to look at an example of how we can
use it we have four years of data and
the units sold in each year to transpose
that I would like to have the years down
a column and the unit sales beside each
year so I've got four columns by two
rows to transpose that I'll select the
opposite so I want four rows and two
columns with those cells selected I type
equal transpose open bracket and then
these cells from the original data close
the bracket and the transpose function
is array entered so on the keyboard
press the ctrl + Shift keys and then tap
the enter key and if you look in the
formula bar you can see curly brackets
have been added at the beginning and end
of that formula to show that it's array
entered so there's the data that's gone
from horizontal to vertical you can do
that with other functions though the
transpose function is a bit limiting
because you have to know head of time
exactly the size of the original data
and the side select that size in the
location where you're pasting it if you
use a function like index instead
so here I've used index and I could just
make that more flexible so I'm not sure
how many years of data I'm going to have
each formulas individually entered in
the cell it's not array entered so it
gives me a bit more flexibility so
that's an alternative to using transpose
is to to use another function like index
if you don't need to keep the links you
can also use paste special to change
data from horizontal to vertical so if I
select these three cells and on the Home
tab I'll copy them then I can select a
cell where I'd like to start pasting
those I don't have to pick the range
that's the exact size I just select a
starting cell and then from the paste
drop-down click transpose and there's
the transpose data and the original is
still there they're not linked at all
but you have the data in a different
layout and you can use transpose in
other formulas so this is a very long
complicated formula but you can see
transpose is used in here and you can
see curly brackets at the end in the
beginning so this is another array
entered formula and it's looking at all
these years of salaries and finding the
best for consecutive years
okay so I was asked to demonstrate
transposition so here we have a equals
to C over a over B equals to C over D
and we want to make a the perform the
equation so we're going to get rid of
beyond this set and the way to do that
if something is in the denominator if
something is in the denominator we're
going to multiply so we can cancel it
out on both sides so we're going to have
here B over 1 times B over 1 this
cancels out this cancels out and so we
have left back C B over D that's the
first one so now we have something the
denominator anything is the denominator
we try to do multiplex
to get rid of it all right so this is
basically going to be C over 1 and we're
going to do 2 since a d over one very
canceling cancel right so now we left
off with D e over B which is equal to C
we still want to get D right so now that
we have this we're going to divide this
by a I'm going to divide this by a and
this goes away and this video way this
is Anna nominator so we're going to
multiply this baby over 1 I'm going to
do the same thing here B over 1 and this
cancel and this cancel so now we have D
is equal to C V over a right
so now we have an algebra equation we
want a simple algebra so whatever we do
to the left hand side in order to do
right so if we have a added here we're
going to minus a right I'm going to also
minus a over here so we are going to be
left back with Oh oops so we wanted a so
we're going to minus B sorry
- B I'm gonna - be here right so we're
gonna be left back with is
- spring okay so we're going to look
back with now is we have minus B plus B
and I'm going to have a is equal to C
plus D minus V perfect same thing here
we want D so we're going to add D
because D is negative on this side right
and so we're going to add D here as well
so you want D I want to do to be
positive so we get rid of this and we
have D plus a plus B is equal to C then
we can have here D is now equal to C
minus a minus B because if we have it
over here we're going to minus a right
I'm going to also minus B and this is
going to cancel this is gonna cancel of
this and this and we just left here we
did the same thing over here to get
while we have something a little bit
more complicated we want to Thames V
right so it's already multiplay it's
already simplified for us so we could go
ahead and basically just move around so
you want to get rid of the two you
cancel out we cancel oh I'm a
multi-plate this saber to only hope to
hear okay
they want to get rid of the T over here
so we cancel out and we cancel oh do it
every two s over T and this cancel out
this cancel oh all right so we left
backward is no 2 s over T equal to u
plus V they want to get V so we're going
to - you from this side I'm going to -
you from this side I'm going to get to s
minus u over T equals to B because this
cancels out this I'm gonna fuck would be
same thing here we want be but it's
squared and this would be pretty simple
to get rid of your square root it's
square everything on this side and now
you have me whenever you have this you
just square everything get rid of it
okay now we want to find you it's the
same thing right so you is actually
added to to a s which is a
multiplication so we're going to move
you on the next step in a minus u
squared for V squared which is equal to
2a s now we have u squared negative
right and we can know take away V
squared we can minus V squared from here
and minus V squared from here right we
can multiply this side by negative 1 and
we multiply this side by negative 1 and
we're going to get now u squared is
equal to minus 2a s plus V squared right
so now you is now equal to square root
of negative 2a s plus V squared rather
8:2 wanna find a in this equation and
again we're going to take away three
squared minus u squared equals to u
squared minus u squared plus 2 EI s
cancel out cancel so we have V squared
minus u squared equals of to a s so I
divide this side by 2 and s and divide
this side by 2 and s I know we have V
squared minus u squared over 2 s is
equal to a
last but not least we have q we have the
equation T over s in under the square
root said I'm looking for Q so this one
is easy T over S Plus Q equal to Q minus
Q minus s sorry o plus s sorry plus s
and this one now is minus s so plus s
minus F and therefore we're going to
have T over s plus s equals to Q because
these two cancel out I know we have the
same thing here I'm looking for T so to
remove that sign we square everything
other than that square everything right
and now we're looking for T so T over s
times s is equal to s Q minus s squared
okay this cancels out this kind of only
have T is equal to s Q minus s squared
all right hope that helps the night
what do we mean by the transpose of a
matrix to find the transpose of a matrix
we simply interchange its rows and
columns yes that gives us its transpose
let's try out an example this is matrix
a it has two rows and two columns we
need to find the transpose of this
matrix it is written as a with T as a
superscript what will this be equal to
we need to interchange the rows and
columns the first row becomes the first
column the first row is 1/4 so the first
column of the transpose will be 1/4 the
first row became the first column and
the second row of the matrix will become
the second column of its transpose the
second row is minus 2/3 so the second
column of the transpose will be minus
2/3 the rows of the matrix become the
columns of its transpose or we can also
say that the columns of the matrix
become the rows of its transpose column
1 became Row 1 and column two became Row
2 but students often get confused at
this point so here's a good way to
remember transpose assume that there are
4 cement bags 2 on top of the other to
the top two bags weigh one kilogram and
four kilograms and the bottom to weigh 2
kilograms and 3 kilograms let's say we
put a box underneath it if we pushed the
first row the 4 kilo bag will fall here
and on pushing the 1 kilo bag it will
land on the 4 kilo bag now let's push
the bags in the second row towards the
right the 3 kilo bag will fall here and
the 2 kilo bag will fall on top of it
this is the transpose of this matrix the
first row became the first column and
the second row became the second column
so this was just one of the ways to
understand transpose of a matrix
okay so here's matrix B I want you to
try finding the transpose of matrix B
so the first row will become the first
column of the transpose the first row is
1 2 minus 1 1 2 minus 1 will be the
first column of B transpose the second
row 3 0 4 will become the second column
of the transpose 3 0 4 that's B
transpose the rows and the columns were
interchanged if we are using a cement
bag approach this is how it will look
the first row falls to become the first
column and the second row Falls to
become the second column what is the
order of matrix B it has two rows and
three columns its order will be 2 by 3
and B transpose has 3 rows and 2 columns
3 by 2 the order is also reversed 2 by 3
becomes 3 by 2 if the matrix is of order
3 by 4 then its transpose will be of the
order 4 by 3 we will look at more
examples over the next few sessions
