let's talk about process management
before talking about process management
let's see what a process is what I
really mean by process there are two
words wish you wish you must be you know
listening for a long time one is a
program and other ways process
so I'll just differentiate between what
these two are so whenever you write any
C program it will look like this for
example if you are written the C program
example dot C right and now this one
will be given this program will be given
to the compiler right and what will
compiler to compiler we just convert
this high-level language generally you
see program will be the high level
language to a low level language which
is machine level language which can be
eluted on the machine right so now see
operating systems task is not to take a
high level language program and
exhibited on the machine before doing
this you should convert it to the
machine level language which operating
system will understand and then it will
directly run on the hardware right so
now compiler is going to generate
something like is in that a dot out so a
dot out in the file which contains
executable code executable code means
the machine code right so either this
one or this one these two are called
programs only program right and now this
program is going to reside in the hard
disk off your memory hard disk of the
computer right so hard disk means the
secondary storage see I say that I
generally use it terms primary memory
which means the RAM and hard disk which
means secondary memory so secondary
memory generally the hard disk and
everything else's comes out of primary
memory so we are mainly using we even
call it as main memory main memory
secondary memory
and second remembrance disk now this
program will generate recite in the
secondary memory right and now not
executed operating system will take that
program right and then put it in the
main memory and then start executing it
so when it puts in the main memory it
will create some kind of structure some
data structure so the data structure is
going to look like this
and that is what we called as a process
the process is something which is
created by the operating system in order
to execute a program
so before you exhibit a program you are
supposed to create the process right so
the relationship between process and
program means you can take of it like
this a process is something which is the
real and a program is something which is
virtual right or if you want to if you
want to see this a process is something
which is like like this body and the
program is the soul right so soul you
cannot actually it is like a virtual
concentrate but in body as it exists
physically so a process is body and
program is soul you can think of it that
way ok and now see this so coming
whenever we want to execute the process
then the operating system will create
something like this you create a
structure like this this structure will
be created in the main memory right and
your dot exe code or executable code
which ever you want it execute will be
here a dot out that is dot exe per which
you got right and above this in your
program sometimes you have some
variables which are called as static
variable static variables means these
variables will be created once y know
and then they are going to remain
forever throughout the lifetime of the
process right so they are called static
variables static variables and global
variables global variables also kind of
static variables
which have to be given access to every
everything in the process or global
variables are talking about it later in
some other subject but now understand
that these two variables static as well
as global are supposed to be created
once and they are supposed to be
existing forever so they are going to be
there forever right and then and then
the remaining space is actually you know
not divided but then you can think of it
like a not strict division right
something like this where you could be
good imagine it this way in any program
will contain a need for dynamic
allocation dynamic elevation means like
heap right so ml log CL of all these
calls the reason is we don't know what
the requirement we might get therefore
will not declare the data structures
unless they are required so therefore we
have to have some space which will be
used by the process later at some point
of time whenever it is needed for that
reason heap so heap will be here right
and then every process is supposed to
contain something called a stack so what
is the what is the advantage of stack
for the recursion calls right for the
function calling we need stack therefore
stack will be there it is also called as
function stack stack will be there if
will be there static variables global
variables and then the executable code
now know after creating this CPU will
take one by one
the lines available in executable code
and then keep on executing them while
executing them it might sometimes have
to refer the static variables which are
present in the same program that is
where that will present in the same
process this entire thing is called
process boundaries right so everything
that is required by this process will be
in this and operating system while
executing this particular process should
never cross the boundaries of this
process which means anything that you
write here should access only this part
you should not write any access
other part then you will get
segmentation fault in case if you try to
access some other part so this program
is completely restricted in such a way
that you are supposed to use only the
elements present in this part you are
never supposed to go outside under for
something else right so now this is this
party static variables and global
variables and this part is hip and
distant this part is tagged one
important thing about heap and stack is
heap will grow upwards and stack will
grow downwards in the sense they both
will not grow upwards the reason is if
you grow both of them upwards I don't
know where to start each one of them and
I don't know you know some in some
programs stack will take more space and
in some programs he will take more space
and I don't know which one is going to
take how much space before executing it
that is where I want to keep my options
open so whichever takes more space will
occupy more space in this and whichever
needs the less space will actually
string down right that is how it can be
taken advantage it is like this you are
having a book finish from one side
you're writing the TOC another side you
are writing the compiler design then you
need not write you know
TOC from half in the initial page and
compiler from the midbass you actually
write it from the opposite sets because
you don't know which one is going to
take more space and which one is going
to you know occupy the complete loop
after some time isn't it similarly we
don't know which one therefore it is
this is this this is the kind of
implementation we are using so this
entire thing is called a process so this
is the program either this one or this
one is a program which will generate a
general reset in the hard disk and once
we try to execute this then for this
particular program this n type thing
will be created by the operating system
right and now this one will be given for
execution to the CPU now CPU will take
each length from here and then refer to
the elements here or use the stop space
and then try to finish the execution so
that is how it is done so this is the
body and this is his soul this is the
soul right and if it does not have any
soul see if you cannot execute it it is
as good as dead man
if we do not have any instructions to
execute even if you use that entire
structure to see for you what will keep
you till right right now how can you
identify pauses see given these many
processes in the in the operating system
like this we have so many people in the
world right then how can you identify
each one of them we are going to use
something called as identification cards
isn't it
identification card is going to say see
this is the ID number may be driving ID
and then this is the name and then this
is these and this is the status
everything will be there right similarly
when we have these many processes
created in the memory randomly at any
point of time we are supposed to keep
track of which process is what and how
many process are there and what what is
the current state of the process what is
happening with it is it running or is it
blocked or what should I do
so in order to identify everything we
are supposed to you know have some
bookkeeping work it is like this every
process will now be given an identity
card right now it is a newborn baby
right need not be newborn it might have
taken some time and now it might have
grown up already anyway whenever
anything is born any process is gone
opera custom is going to give it some ID
card right now that ID card is going to
look like this that will contain all
these attributes one attribute is
process ID so process ID means every
process will be given some number right
that is called process ID
why is it useful is we cannot obviously
name a name a process right like how we
name the people so that is when it is a
unique number which will be given to a
process in a computer every process will
get a different number and and you know
coming to this process ID it is not like
port number port number is universal
everyone maintains the same port number
but here the process ID here the process
ID is actually different in the sense it
you know depending on the operating
system some operating systems will use
16 bits some operations will use 32-bit
like that ok and next one is program
counter program counter means while you
are executing it
is a program here the process you
suddenly stop the process and again you
restarted it then from which point it
should you actually start the execution
which means assume that we have like ten
instructions i1 i2 i3 so on i-10 and say
you stopped the execution or Isaac's you
exited i6 and then after this you stop
the execution and then you remove this
process and then you exhibited some
other process and later again you
started this process then after this
instruction what is the next instruction
you are supposed to execute right so
that is what we wanted so for that
reason we use something called as
program counter program counter will
contain what is the next instruction
that has to be executed right so that
you can keep on shooting it without any
repetition that is that is just to
maintain that okay next for this process
state so what is process stages I'll
tell you there are various states next
I'll tell you what what the states we
have but anyway like this already it
states will be like this ready to run or
running or blocked or waiting anything
I'll show you this later and next
priority priorities it shows importance
so whenever any process is created by
the operating system then it will
generally assign something called as
priority a process which is having
higher priority is supposed to execute
our first compared to the process which
are having lower priority for example if
you have an operating system process
then it should be given the highest
priority because it is important
compared to the user process right
therefore depending on that we assign
some number priority is nothing but a
number which will be given to the
process whenever it is having whenever
it is you know created for example you
like this now priority given now coming
to this sub priority
try it is a number you can compare it
this way politicians politicians will
have you know higher priority compared
to normal people therefore
they're going on road the road will be
blocked for others similarly when a new
process with higher priority enters the
you know environment then that ones will
be given higher priority and everyone
will be blocked or everyone will wait
until it finishes right so like that
priority will be useful and now there is
something called as general purpose
registers so general purpose registers
means when you are executing a program
some prompt some program then what
happens is the CPU will make use of the
resistors right and now when you pull
out that process now these resistors
will contain some numbers and if you
pull out that process and put the next
one there okay now now we are all
stronger which are both the resistors
now general purpose registers are like
this if you have a CPU
so if you have a CPU now it will have
some registers so register r1 erasure r2
resistor r3 like this okay and now if
there is a process P 1 and if it is
executing on this CPU CPU say you know
implement acute in this process p1
during its execution it will be having
some some numbers which are stored in
registers for example here the number
stored is one number storage two number
stored is three right and now this
process some let us say the next
instruction which has to be executed is
I for the instruction number and let us
say Aye chorus r1 equal to r2 plus r3
this is the instruction there for a
process will even refer to general
general purpose registers during its
execution it is not just that you know
it is going to refer only on the
elements which are present in the
process it will even refer to the
general purpose registers now if this is
the next instruction that has to be
executed assume that at this point of
time p1 this particular process got
preempted preempted means stopped for
some reason it got stopped what are the
reasons we shall see them later and then
the other process p2 p2 it got to be now
p2 has to be executed some other process
it came for resolution
now CPU is executing this therefore p2
will definitely change the status of
this right so let us say it is changing
the status from here 5 and here 6 right
and after for some time this p2 left the
CPU and again p1 not executed and
therefore by looking at this program
counter we know that the next
instruction which has to be executed is
I 4 so I am going to take I 4 and
executed but then execute this one R 1
will be R 2 plus R 3 which means R 1
will be 5 message which is 11 right but
then actually it has to be 2 plus
revisions 5 so whenever you priam or
whenever you stop any process and take
the next process
for execution it would even make sure
that the this you know the
general-purpose registers this state the
what is what is present in the
general-purpose registers they also
should be stored at some point at some
place so that when you again come back
the entire state of the general purpose
register should be restored right so
that is why it is called as general
purpose registers which are also which
have to be stored right and next one is
list of open files so list of open files
means during the aleutian of the process
some files are going to be opened and
some files will be open for reading some
files will be open for writing therefore
you are supposed to remember what are
the files which you have already opened
so that later when you again I know come
back variation of the preemption you
should know you know how which one you
have opened so that you will not again
open it or you will at least close it
right so why is this one is useful is
when many many process are known using
files you should make sure that the same
plans the same file even if it is
written by to process it should be
consistent therefore sometimes you
should know what are the process which
are opening some files and for a given
file what are the process which are
opening it and for a given process what
are the files it opened it because
whatever modifications you do on the
file system is now going to reflect on
the processes right so later what
happens is if a particular file is
closed which is already being read by
process then before closing it you will
just go through all the list of courses
which are opening this and again you
inform them that we are going to you
know delete this file or something like
that next one is this top open devices
so open to various means you can think
of it like this that printers scanners
and hardware devices and you know you
should maintain a list of it production
so production is like this you are not
supposed to execute get into the other
process workspace
similarly other process are not supposed
to get into your workspace right so
operating system should protect you from
others as well as you should stop you
from accessing lis other's data so
everything every information will be
maintained in this right it is a kind of
identification card like however
identification cards work here also the
same way it will work now where will all
this information be present is it will
create something called else for every
process it will create something called
else process control block in this
process control block the entire
information will be present so for every
process we get one process control block
let us say this is it process control
block for p1 and it is the process
control block for p2 from this control
block for p3 right so so on for all the
process we have process control blocks
and all this process control blocks will
be will be present in a linked list
right so you can know by looking at this
list of process control blocks how many
processes are executing I mean how many
process are there in the system and then
now which one is doing what by looking
at this state of it and then you can
know what are the files used by each one
and many things various names everything
you can it would get to get it from this
information under this so this is the
district PCBs which is going to indicate
how many everything about the process a
particular process can be identified
using one PCB but the all the processes
if you want to know about them
information then you can look at this
list right everything is maintained by
the operating system in a linked list
okay
hi everyone and welcome to this video in
this video I want to show you my process
when working on my inktober drawings
I've been having so much fun with this
year's challenge so far trying lots of
different ideas and the word prompts
have actually been awesome on the 10th
day the word prompt was gigantic and
this gave me so many ideas that I wanted
to try and on days like this where
there's multiple ideas I've actually
started by roughly sketching a few of
them in little thumbnails and these
thumbnails help so much when you're
thinking about the composition and the
layout and it always helps me to
actually decide which one I want to work
on as you can see the three ideas that I
roughly sketched there's a giant pumpkin
in a field with a bunch of regular
pumpkins also a giant walking through a
valley with a little character standing
in the corner then lastly I was thinking
maybe a giant tree sheltering a city and
in the end I decided to work on the
massive tree because the idea seems the
most interesting to me so then I started
sketching the full drawing developing
much more detail than I added to the
thumbnail with knots and branches on the
tree and just kind of developing much
more shape then I made sure to add a
large layer of leaves at the top for the
city I tried to kind of give each of the
buildings much more individual
characteristics changing their shape and
size and adding little details then I
added a large forest surrounding the
entire scene once I've completed the
sketch and I was happy with the layouts
it was then time for the inking and I
like to make sure that I add all the
inking at this stage before adding
anything else using varying pigma micron
pens and I really try not to worry too
much about the quality of the line work
and I try to approach this in a much
more relaxed way and I'm going to be
placing more layers over the top of it
anyway I try to also vary the the line
thickness depending on where my light
source is going to be and I knew that in
this scene I wanted to place the moon on
the left so I would place the shadows on
the right side with thicker outlines for
areas like the underside of the tree
this is where I like to use either a
pigma micron brush pen or a larger pen
tool
brush pen to add any larger areas of ink
it makes the process so much easier and
I really like the effect it gives it
adds a lots more of 3d depth especially
kind of contrasting the the darkness of
that underside of the tree with the
branches that are overlapping it when
I'd eventually added all the inking to
the tree and the city and the
surrounding forest this is where I like
to start using Copic markers for the
shading and for all of my inktober
drawings I mainly just use cool gray one
three five and seven but for this year
I've also loved adding hints of color to
some of the drawings so as you can see
for this one I chose to add bright
crimson to the tree as I progress
through each of these drawings I also
like to add bright highlights with the
uni-ball white ink pen and a white
prismacolor pencil I always love adding
highlights especially on this toned tan
paper and in this case I really believe
it helps to develop the shape of the
tree I then added cool gray shading to
the city then layered some bright
highlights on top of it that's also
represented to the windows on each
building I just tried to make use of the
highlights to add individual details to
each building and just trying to make
them look different from one another
then for the forest in the background
this is where I actually added the
highlights first and then add his dark
shading over the top of it and I tried
to create a smooth gradient upwards into
the sky then for the forest in the
foreground this is where I actually
followed the same routine with the
highlights first followed by the shading
but then I also added layers of shading
to each individual tree just trying to
create the effects of shadows under each
layer I've never tried to create that
effect with these trees before and
hopefully it works out to add some final
details to this drawing I also placed a
moon and some stars in the sky and then
I added some crimson falling leaves
along with some clouds with the cool
gray markers then after that the drawing
was completed it's super fun to attemps
different ideas like this and that's why
I love working on inktober and I also
want to show you another time-lapse
featuring the inktober drawing I worked
on for the fifteenth day where the word
prompt was mysterious and I wanted to
try and create a mysterious looking
doorway
my idea was to try and add lots of
shading to create a kind of a looming
darkness and I guess my idea for this
one was to try and attempt something a
bit more spooky
and as you'll be able to see I follow
the same routine for each drawing
developing the sketch at first then
moving on to the inking before finally
adding the shading and the highlights
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
I really hope you enjoyed watching this
video
inktober is such an awesome challenge
and I'm having a great time please let
me know what you think and also let me
know if you have any suggestions for
future videos if you want to see more
stuff like this then feel free to
subscribe and any likes or shares in
this video they really mean a lot to me
if you want to follow my progress and
see progress photos before I post these
videos then check out the links in the
description box below to check out my
Twitter Facebook and Instagram and once
again thank you so much for watching and
thank you so much for the support I
really appreciate it
I hope having an awesome day and I'll
see you all soon
I get up the I trusted process many not
[Music]
everybody to see in his work they think
anything like want to take the time away
to go
it's all entertaining person like myself
I got an honor it's not the village
[Music]
[Music]
I'll make sure I'm on point with these
niggas the cameras on everyone like the
punk shit out I make sure Alicia teeth
okay tell them niggas smile it's almost
in 30 mph and 30 years niggas open up
big mouth so you tell them niggas do you
keep talking my shit I'm gonna keep
popping my shit and so I think I do what
he gonna do
alright when I'm out that shit they know
anyone about that shit I mean you know
I'm worried about shit I ain't worried
about no and I knew they'd pop me she'll
pop my shit to fuck each other my niggas
ain't the only nigga that pops it in the
city tell them niggas open up the
motherfucking cavern you have an ass
niggas I never had one I crazy as day
I'm niggas I'm up they always talking
about pull up pull up for what it's a
million of your senior scouts out poor
luck when I was over there we wasn't
telling nobody to pull up with was
poorly done but they want to confuse the
people they want to tell look if people
to pull up when I was there we was
pulling up on people
facts candy you hear me facts facts when
I was dead we was pulling up on people
pull up
don't ain't nobody gonna come around
here who goes to people houses I got a
issue like there's a million y'all pull
up ten cars deep pull up pull up
I'm at them niggas everyday I'm gonna
say what I need to say that gotta prove
me different I'm not convinced I'm not
convinced you wonder why I did you wanna
know why cuz I'm fuckin battle tested
and they just won't ready that's why I'm
not convinced I'm not convinced pull-up
or pulls up if I get in my ear just
right now they're not pulling up to that
address I can guarantee you that they
not pulling up to no edge like some
reason them and if they pulled up they
can be scared to death
alive talking about here we go right
here but they they're gonna be the same
ones talk about keep it off the internet
they not pulling up they not the mob
I mean they knocked my dad pulling up he
knocked the lock man they're not the mob
they definitely not to my mean I'm a
fishy tissue man Lulu I do the same from
coast to coast man I don't do nothing
man don't add to get up somebody to add
to get up man they got me on my shit
only one give my head could I just want
to let my cheek grow let me get back on
my shit let my hair grow up curly y'all
really see my head they think the money
made my hair curly - there's all types
of rumors going around the money me my
hair curly the money got me acting crazy
but mind you I've been stamped this
crazy since forever then when he got me
being a tyrant they've been he
introduced me to the world as a tyrant
but all that something might changed I
was never a retirement what happened was
the bullshit I didn't accept from other
people became present at him and it
became apparent and when it became
apparent I made him aware of that I was
aware of you know lots of nut shit what
you need to check yourself when they got
like that man he couldn't take it and
that's what we got our prime Sean he got
nuts shit with him hey if I talk about
why you were standing with him I was
standing with him cuz I had no reason
not to stand with him Leake malls been
my childhood friend I said before I was
I know he came to get me without a
question or shadow of a doubt like a
movie from the time I was over there
till this time right now up until I
exploded the other day I stood with
these dudes unanimously
all of them each another day that's what
I mean by unanimously it was if I made
my decision my one vote to stand with
all of them even though they've all
gotten that shit with him right I looked
at it as a family like you got brothers
and you got sisters and you got cousins
you won't fuck with all loving and shit
sometimes you don't fuck with none of
them but the family and I made a
decision not to bounce around it's just
gonna be a family thing you feel comes
in like but it got to the point where as
though family wasn't treating me with
the same or go
it's like I'm giving out these
concessions and I'm saying what I need
to say in regards to you know just like
went in and like you know imma still
carry this ovh band I see I gotta do my
own thing cuz there's really no room for
me to grow over here cuz he's not
allowing for me to grow everything is ya
do your own thing if I'm gonna do my own
thing I'm gonna do my own thing I'm not
gonna do my own thing and represent obh
know like unlike as build his brand up
make him bigger and I'm gonna make my
brand bigger and that's just gonna be my
family now I gotta move up and build my
own house you understand what I'm saying
people didn't get that because I was
emotional the other day no it's a lot of
other stuff that went on as I calmly
it's chill I'm gonna put it all on the
table so y'all can really see like it
wasn't that I went to AG I went to leak
I went to air I went to leak I'm gonna
back and forth between these two
brothers trying to show a that I see
that as a problem between us on the ways
of rising from way before the shoddy guy
came and for like months I was showing
leak and leak was denying and then one
day Lee came to my room like bro I see I
see you bro I'm like you see across the
broad just seeing myself I said I ain't
gonna say nice he's like nah not like
he's like I use like sneaky fruit
you gotta see something like now you
gotta say something like right like he
tripping right this is brother I'm like
why are you tripping right he liked you
much he felt comfortable saying that to
me because I've done nothing but treat
him like a brother up and said his pain
you know me then I'm was cheating like a
brother up into this plant so he felt
like coming to me and talking to me
about his brother because he was talking
to me about my brother and I was talking
to him about my brother our brother so
born
that's dead I start trying to get in
contact with 818 change I used to talk
to 8:00 every morning nobody was talking
to him I talk to him every morning for
munch Street ten o'clock any morning she
started changed when my life started
changing he started changing how you
dealing with me when I start changing
how I'm moving in regards to me picking
up flying out you know losing we making
a conscious decision to upgrade my
quality of life making a conscious
decision to take a hold of my career cuz
nobody is over there is doing it there's
not that I wanted to be the leader I
just wanted to be led by a man or
someone that was capable of leading I
don't know I only have aspirations to be
the ruler or none of that because you
know to whom much is given much is
expected
I really don't like when people expect
nothing from outside of what they
expected me so but when you a ruler they
expect you to make things happen that
they can make happen and I really with
that because I already got my kids and I
got my family y'all ready that's a lot
of pressure so I'm cool with supporting
the ruler so I never ever would have
went against the head you know I mean
like that I'm gonna did that come on man
we rapping we trying to make our way
about this shit try and take care of
families who cares who's the big ticket
on the front I don't care but the person
on the front has to not Kay Eva because
then this do you start going to
monologues doing his interviews he start
going in the monologues like yeah I
created these dudes I run these dudes
these dudes listen to me
whatever I say go the I will have them
go out there for ten years and bring me
back all the proceeds and they won't
question it that's protocol now that's
tomfoolery
cuz if you ever think that my mom ever
raised me to be the type of individual
to do anything that you just see what if
I'll just calls a reason you have the
laws your mind
skirt tuck goon in the rest of your
affiliate come on man I'm not tripping I
know what happened what happened is I
was with my brothers and I was being me
the same way I been me being me since I
was a kid and I went to them on some
reckless shit like yo dude anybody man
we gotta get him out of here I really
not getting him out of getting him away
from us that wasn't my whole thing and I
really express myself in that manner
just like that cock show just like that
with no sense because of the fact I
thought I was cool we're talking with my
brother these dudes how that stood up
with these boots I don't live with far
as like suffering the same critter these
dudes that you know I don't you know I
didn't sacrifice with neither sacrifice
we leave for so it was like I came in
like don't know this dude ain't been
here today just been around you know not
letting him know like I think I know
problem would do I got a problem well he
got going on with his life
angry that Danny for us that's not a
good look for over the age not me you
know me so it came I came in you know
once and shit like that and it was like
four ejected and then it got to the
point and it's this is facts this all
the stuff is document facts I got to the
point where I was like you know what I'm
causing too much of a problem man leak
talk and I'm causing too much of a
problem with my stronger pants so leak
like bro it doesn't matter who and he
broke it down to the plane like dog the
same thing family you don't deal with
all family that's a bro let's just leave
it there I said okay
whoo no problem what ended up happening
is I end up you know me and do end up
being our act like we end up being hurt
like I like a month go by you end up
being cool you know not hanging out
nothing like that but I pipe down just
for the greater good everybody like a
pipe they're like I'm gonna just pipe
down I'm not around anyway like Lexie so
it doesn't matter and leave saying like
I got my husband
worry about it I'm not around anyway
you're not around anyway produce chip
I'm like whoo no problem
well I became a problem because now this
individual would start running around
with my name in his mouth in regards to
you know people coming to him they get
me confused with him him confused with
me and in the process he's having
extracurricular conversations about me
then I go to him just on some nonchalant
stuff just as a visor I wasn't no no
tough Tony stuff none of it but I've
already had his deck stacked against me
he already had his agendas because when
they first came I was happy I was in the
crib immediately cried me Aidan wasn't
there yet I was in the crib laughing
joking slapping hands hi father all that
type of stuff
everybody was chilling me and we had a
quick intimate conversation Bournemouth
didn't everybody start filling in we was
chilling I'm like damn with a a was
shoddy I need to holler shot what are
you and he was like he'll Sawa hey I'm
like they've been outside the whole time
he watch me walk past I'm like hey so I
felt that was odd like then it was
outside their whole time they watch me
walk past nobody looked on the sayshe
day something like Danny but then I look
outside like you know we give me the
know half as here not that yo he just
came to the torture I go back in I ain't
really worried about that cuz I know I
don't got no malice with I know I had no
ill intent in whatever warning signs
that it could be a problem I ignored
them joints because of the fact that I
really didn't have a problem because if
I knew this shit could transpire like
this why would I push the issue no
because at this point I can never be
friends again so why would I push the
issue in this manner if I knew this was
a long cold
I know was really cool like this what
happened next is when they came in I
greeted them cheap things poor boy from
man what's up when I got the shotty I
said come here bro let me highlight your
light quick book and I went to go pull
him private to talk to him it a bust in
on my private conversation and I say
today I said hold up bro let me help
with the problem bro let me holler at
him right quick this between your grown
me he's standing there let me talk to
him I might probably grown me shady man
it's not that deep this money I said I'm
you mean to talk Oh what are you talking
about bro I'm your man - I'm sorry we
could get from my neighborhood
yeah Eddie she I said so at that point I
feel like my men are being childish
bullshit at that point leak is Norman
couch playing the video cam I can't hear
everything that's going on in the
kitchen it's just no doors in it once
you open the front door it's a straight
run all the way back there's no walls
and none of it so be acting like he own
you know he won't see what's going on
like I'm looking at my friend I'm like
you just sitting in the game like like
they had a pre conversation as though
you know this ever come up became we all
taking this position to give me because
nobody spoke up for me and even now it
obh nobody came up and stepped on the
seat
he's right you're right but I got
multiple DMS Windu's DL some dudes over
there that I'm y'all talking about like
doing not she I think that's not shit I
think what they doing this nut shit I
think telling me I'm right and private
and then publicly standing with them
strengthening their character
strengthening their image of
righteousness and honorable lips
whatever you want to call it I think
that's why you know I mean but at that
moment I turned around I saying man
check this to fuck up
keep my name out your mouth a nigga like
you shouldn't have a nigga like me name
your mark I don't do no business what
you I don't know I got a phone number
we cool because we are paid to gather
we're from the same neighborhood we was
in the same jails we never hung with
each other just keep my name out your
mom and then everything that transpired
after that was because of AB again it
was because I began because I want to go
to tough Tony Rock I'm not no bitch and
not no bitch I guess that's what he's
saying to me a bitch because all this
shit is like it's bitch nigga shit all
this shit is shit that kid like this
shit is shit that could have definitely
been eradicated and you know stopped out
at the moment she just listen to Shady
listen don't get to thinking all clever
just listen to me I'm the clever one
nah man they think they clever I am the
clever
nah man it take a bunch of dummies to
find me and he's still gonna get it
dummy I ain't even running I don't even
understand why they can't find it is so
adamant and so pressed on believing that
I'm running well that would make y'all
think that would make the people think
they look at where you're looking at
what stones are your alternate you
throwing I'm saying we are looking at
and what's the fucking point of me
showing up at the door if you're
inviting me to death I'm not dumb and I
mean only one that's dumb is donald
trump keep fuckin with them people ain't
dumb Kikki pump fake and talking about
what are you gonna do this and the third
they want to act like this I'm gonna
keep it off the internet but that y'all
notice that every response they had to
me was on the internet even the ones
that made me go to the jail notice if
y'all go back and listen to my music I
never really get saucy about leak I be
heard about leak like I never get saucy
about him like hurting him or nothing I
do be wanting to hurt other niggas
because they got in between us shit and
he broke me and me relationship up but
then when I really think about it
me and weak relationship wasn't on the
word for the relationship we're having
because he was lying the whole time
he was like as a compulsive liar me and
his bad and he's showing he
compulsive-like he hate his brother he
used my love him and his brother love
for him to turn us against each other
all he did for my street
was so all my wins and accolades in
front of his brother face came back from
collie talking big shit even lining I'm
telling them he has she ain't going
you're going she ate a ain't never had
no AIDS he never had to be tested
do you think it's cool to a girl and
everything like that
this was the brother saying about the
proper I never talked like that about
Elaine uh I wish my brother was alive so
he can run this shit and y'all saying
why did I get out at that moment y'all
didn't dig it I was separating myself
staying in Cali staying away from all
that stuff
staying away from all that stuff notice
I stopped doing features with him all
right
Stan he show up to no smoke video none
today cuz it was a whole bunch of fuck
boys shit and I mean so bunch of fucking
bullshit and I mean I ain't getting
another I'm gonna murder and I'ma talk
cuz that she say and i'ma talk cuz it's
a yeah my talk cuz it's a and I don't
need friends but I definitely need my
name to remain intact
not me I definitely need my name to
remain intact so let's address this
snitching thing I never spoke about
nothing that wasn't already spoken about
on wags or interviews on multiple
occasions let's talk about it okay we're
gonna talk about this murder thing this
murder thing that they talk about I
threw out there I murdered a new murder
or something like that
I don't even know nothing about the new
murders I wasn't witness to no new
murders I wasn't witness to no old
murders I'm speaking about what AB spoke
about a spoke about where he was locked
up for the feeling I'm saying and spoke
about what he was locked up for and said
I was locked up for a murder and he said
multiple occasions on different records
different interviews and he got in
detail about this mood
or multiple records multiple interviews
himself before he ever met trendsetter
Shady I spoke on the reality of that
murder
the reality is you didn't do it the
reality is you still allow a rat to
claim OVH why because he was the one who
did it
and you don't want to what he went to
trial to they saying I'm snitching no he
went to trial - so he can't be charged
again either he went to trial
- honey shot down went to trial - but
this story when he went to trial after
they got whatever punishments they got
it doesn't even matter because they
can't be charged again so the true story
could be the true story I don't deal
with demons of a murder cuz you never
murdered nobody and that's a good thing
you know I mean that's a good thing and
that's a good thing you really could get
a gun license if you write one too
frou-frou stop acting like you two
talking like you got this crazy long
jacket full of treacherous shit going on
you got a piped up murdered I was amped
up because he was with Cassidy if he
wasn't with Cassidy nobody would have
heard about the murder you probably
wouldn't had enough attention to even
beat the motherfucker the system would
have swept you up underneath the ground
just like everybody else but being his
thought he had to deal with that case
like a fine-toothed never with a
fine-tooth comb you sweep through those
cracks man shallow and that's the good
thing but tell the world you the top
goon but you got the board that put you
in jail still around he's still around
you know Cassidy never - he's still
around up she adds a hater shrooms and
still got that boy around come on man we
still got that boy rap that boy took you
from your friend my boy you took all
this time blowing stuff talk about
everybody talking about dad you know so
well I'm snitch I'm speaking on
something that nobody can be charged
with I'm speaking on an issue that's
well known I'm speaking on an issue that
he spoke on prior to me speaking on it
multiple occasions sure so we can knock
that snitching shit down right there
with that instance boom let's go to the
shotty issue again before average spoken
shoddy
and was already highly topping them as
being a person that beat two bodies as
being a person that been acquitted in
these bodies he talked about these
bodies over the phone I've seen him he's
talked about these bodies via text I've
seen him he's talked about these bodies
via Instagram I see him he's talked
about these bodies via records I've
heard him you understand what I'm saying
so like what I'm trying to say is he
already spoke about these things it was
cool and he was speaking about it okay
so now let me speak about it and my
opinion is you've integrate that into
that shit I don't I don't know what it
would take for me to kill one of my
homies and I'm not trying to figure it
the fuck out and I'm not trying to be
around nobody who figured the equation
up because next thing you know one plus
one gonna equal to in this nigga and
he's gonna equalize that shit off me and
I ain't even gonna know what's going on
you feel I'm saying cuz he figured out
the formula what it's gonna take like
what is gonna take the crack this fucker
only skull open
I didn't I never figured that formula I
don't know what it's gonna take
hoping I'll ask my mate I don't know
whether the chick that hurt one of my
friends ain't been idiot
ain't been on that side of life yet real
shit as many friends I had and like I
haven't been on that you know I mean I
mean I haven't been on that side of life
so that's that's dead he figured the
equation out that was my issue later he
said I spoke on that I read it look how
when you're already talked about it
alright let's go again the issue with my
brother how before I ever talk about my
brother mind you this my brother momma
same same day I've never spoken about
this issue so much or in such detail as
I've had
three to four weeks you know but if you
all remember the first person to ever
get up and talk about my brother's death
and how he was killed and who killed him
in the whole situation on tape was not
Christian if it was not that guy
it was a or AB on the tax TV show it was
a raf on the tax season show and when it
was erm on the tax season so he spoke
about wild plums Dean and then he spoke
about with the situation stem from and
he explained the murder he explained the
murder
the next day when the interview was
released whenever the interview was
released it was a backlash in our city
in Philadelphia everybody was called an
Abba rep one person in particular rocked
the world
24 the world everybody loaded he put it
up on Instagram he said this ain't
snitching at this ain't telling I don't
know what it is when he put that up
everybody on OPH was furious because we
know that to not be snitching because
what because dude talked about it
already and his records do you talk
about he went to trial already he can't
be tried again for something that he's
already did time for the only thing he
could do is violate parole or probation
he already did the time so let's talk
about it
it's not cool but I talking about is not
snitching they play Pleasant is not
distorted snitch it might be unsavory is
definitely not snitching all right so
they talking about
I didn't like when dude said that the
world rocked the world he like he called
everybody I can't all right let's go
down everybody to tell you we went down
and talked to that guy from that talk we
had he got to understand and uh alright
that ain't snitching he took it down so
at that point if he took it down because
he was applying the same principles that
I haven't him trying to apply to me
why is he cool for these dudes they keep
it up because they always hypocritical
and they talk especially a listen to him
he flip flop he flip flop
me I just flips out right I don't flip
flop I just flip flops I flips out and
if you go listen to my records when I'm
hurting and people be talking about is
disses no y'all can't confuse the people
and make me feel like my records as
disses my records is heart-felt up pills
to my friends to get a shit together
when they come to me like at this point
I have to write this thing I have to
show you how your volley I mean your
volley in this Brotherhood we got my
distance to my enemies is just that dope
their disses don't care but anything I'm
saying on my own is Hamid issue your mom
going here
your sister's going in your cousin's
going here it's gonna be an issue about
you either gonna be look like a fool
i'ma have to make you look like a clown
here I had to do something to me I'm
gonna do something to you you know me
and they don't they don't dig that
and I'm gonna dig that and I know I talk
a lot and whatnot but society I know
start talking I meet a lot of people man
and some real stuff I meet people every
day all day from talking I know a lot of
things from talking because when I'm
talking a part of talking a part part of
effective communication it's listening
so if I'm effectively communicating with
people various different types of people
every day my effective listening skills
are great I'm listening and I'm
retaining things and I'm experiencing
things and I'm applying these things and
I'm leveling up I've seen different ways
that tech life different ways to get
around problems I mean my conflict
resolution gaming a big you're fooling
him saying my conflict resolution game
on a beat so I know for sure I got the
gangsta at me I know for sure I got the
gentleman I mean I'll just be trying to
find a balance in between because at the
end of the day it's like I don't want to
be like you see we're all the way thanks
to getting them dudes dumb dudes can't
get out the hoodies like they can't get
out the muddies no matter what they do
they cannot get out the hoodies to hold
no face the whole you know we stuck on
this corner hole attire they can't do it
because they don't feel comfortable
doing anything else because they haven't
been any wheels they don't know that you
cannot and I repeat you cannot play who
order than me right through the hills of
Beverly baby you can't play who harder
than me rise to Beverly oh no people
won't be looking at you crazy a backlash
young blue niggas and Beverly is you
crazy
can't play that type of music out there
you gotta appeal became clear that North
Philly shit all in Beverly Hills I
should only resonate and no Philly in
places like North Philly the music that
I'm trying to make I'm trying to
transcend imaginary lines that they put
on the maps cuz I'd be in the air now
and see the lines like that just be
laying water land water land water you
know I mean so my mindset bigger I think
different
nah man I think totally different I
think totally differently I think my
monster just waited differently it a lot
of time a lot of times niggas excuse my
language
a lot of time people want you to be
pigeonholed to what they want you to be
pigeonholed to because of the fact that
if they see if you if you explode you're
gonna knock them out the box I never
came to do that with a I never came to
do that with a Rick but at the end of
the day listen listen at the end of the
day it's like this he'd not making room
for nobody over there to win like that's
what this issue come down to Heatley
issues with me because I'm winning
without making room when I wasn't
reposting my stuff none of that money
talking about a made me I'm saying to
myself
y'all recruited me when y'all recruited
me okay for me I never called to be a no
bitch I never even listened to a a our
air song before that y'all recruiting me
I don't even know AB music never oh look
at that I can't be jumping around going
back I was never taped up on listening
to his music I got into being his
brother
the music was irrelevant everybody are
telling Shady don't listen to rap like
that alternative rap I might listen to
like before I was like people that said
my fill I wasn't school I listen to like
flak order just to push on the right
space
I put listening like flock all along but
a nice young blue drama
lights camera Drake me
everything else is on B and Biggie it's
a biggie and jay-z that's it and wildly
I'm sorry that's my time
there you go right there and while it
that's it
and Chris when you call me with the nut
shit you know but you know I don't
really like my mind
it doesn't really stay i alternate you
know you know that alternate but for my
second I take a breakfast
that's why that mean that's why they say
you know shady he losing weight he's
sick no I'm not sick let me show y'all
this is Oscar my day off right already
drunk one glass of water with my lord
you in it you know me a little energy
shot all that already jumped body said
use the bathroom who made this was the
next thing is going in my body man the
next thing you get them saying like they
like to criticize but they they don't
know make sure y'all they like to
criticize it I don't know I know what
I'm doing
I'll pay them no mind like I don't pay
them no mind I had my little cheat days
when I want you to lunch me sandwiches
something like that but other than that
like I live my life the way I want in my
life like and I keep room-temperature
water I live my life the way I want to
live my life you know I'm not on there
I'm not on that my family raised me
different my mom know I've been to since
I've been coaching I think I've been
experiencing coaching league they want
y'all to plea that don't believe I and
then let's get to the rest of these
lousy talking about I'm ready if y'all
go listen to protocol to protocol 3 all
AB do is talk about mom much money I got
how many bodies I got right that's we
say shady got hundreds and hundreds of
thousands of dollars he's been locked up
for multiple movies he this is what he
likes to do that's what I have a
probably he likes to get men around that
he think validates his marriage because
of their ex of what he think is violent
no you don't deal with demons so you
understand how a person that got to deal
with things you know deal with things so
you thinks think it's cool put it all in
here know it creates anxiety
see stretch grief regret sorrow all
these things my recent but here you do
with that and I don't see how y'all
keeps letting you slide y'all can't let
me slide let's see one thing about leaky
just be talking
one thing about Li Li just be talking or
not just be listening you can't put the
mask back on once you took it off he
wanted fake modesty in this little video
no that's my brother like thank you
that's really that's really a sign of a
hypocrite a person that fakes modesty
you think no that's my brother fake you
telling me you my brother but two
seconds later you going right back at me
talking about pull up pull up pull up
no that's my brother oh that looks
retarded no my brother right here dog
la forever brothers father you see that
brothers forever that's Oh my brother I
mean my brother right here jigger y'all
know jigger was my brother not me y'all
know what's up that's my brothers no man
I got a couple more too and going it no
man it went Frank Ocean on me it wasn't
Frank on me man hey they talking his rat
stuff listen I never been a wreck I
never been a wreck X Lewis I 100 shot
died why I got him over did they got
read lovers over there AB a rat lovely
leak and a beef about this all the time
act that is a rat lover ever rat lover
for sure he bring a man it's a own
protocol listen they got one protocol
and then they got an protocol you feelin
me they got the protocol he want
everybody else to live by then he got
this protocol he led by know you got you
got you got a protocol he got a protocol
and protocols he require everybody to be
at a show if he don't gonna get an
attitude like a little fucking girl he
gonna be in this fellas this thing are
you gonna be DM and everybody talking my
he helping nobody know more about how he
made everybody and by how he should be
grateful and nigga should be grip I
wanna hear that shit you ain't cut
nobody no checks off the shelves
you ain't helping nobody get no-shows he
really era me like he really think that
because he had a popularity that that
equates to don't being a good leader
know what that equates to his people
he's just watching you Simula today
watch a baby that got a 100,000
followers send me live today watching a
chick that she's shaking her ass that
got a hundred and seven thousand
followers two hundred thousand followers
you fool I'm saying at that point yeah
you got people that follow what they're
doing because they into it that doesn't
mean that with their ensuring the shit
that you're doing it's doing anything
for the culture or pushing it forward ad
hasn't done anything for the culture the
culture has done everything for a
straight like that my mindset is to do
shit for the culture to establish a
powerhouse in our city to bring your
back way so we can have a record company
a record label not all these just that
all these cliques that guy we just got
LLC's and he just fighting each other no
we get this join together like a motel
Empire over here mo Tyler we got enough
individuals in Philadelphia enough
professional if individuals enough
wealthy individuals enough influential
individuals enough talented individuals
enough patient hard-working dedicated
committed individuals to make
Philadelphia a sinner of anything
fashion music sports tourism
camers all that and these dudes playing
with me talk about some top goon top
green can't sit down at the table and
have an intense conversation about micro
and macroeconomics top man can't sit
down and do that he came he has no
understanding of what gentrification and
reject the vacation is he has none he
has none this man on the Internet
calling me crazy saying I'm sick no I'm
sick of your bullshit act I'm sick of
your bullshit and sick and tired of it
the next time you dish it out and go get
some medication fool for real that's how
sick I am I'll go to the doctors I'll
explain everything
I'm a telephony some witless dude
driving me crazy with his nonsense keep
getting on there you're too old for this
you almost 40 years old you posed to be
on Big Brother you let it get like this
cuz you petty and you just want to sing
our attention why you in let alone run
yet why do you let he run you ready run
until you got back Letty wanted she got
back from they let him run until you got
back and you got back that was it that
was it nobody else got in a position of
authority nobody else got in a position
to see your brother hot why didn't ever
tell him it's a marque artist loja he
had a way with that whole Ron Harvey why
didn't just let him go and focus on
getting yourself together in the
business together to catch everybody you
always talking about being a leader
you're always talking about being a
leader but all I see is a person I just
want to be in the front that's it you
haven't done anything that qualifies you
to be a leader you got a house that a
bunch of dudes sit and listen to your
stories about success and how you can
make them successful if they think he's
continued to be blind and uneducated
this true story I know I didn't want to
be a part of ovh no more and Lee
convinced me otherwise when I'll be out
came from Jersey and he was dead with a
group individuals we was there look
everything was there I pulled up on the
scene I get there
he's violently in our gangster - I'll be
on his friends
I'm an EPROM I'll be on his fins I got a
problem with this means that he got a
father did my gangster to anybody don't
talk to this man about how much I'm
stand-up let this man shake my name
let's just make me me I might not even
want that man to know that that man you
might have just shut every door that
could have been open to me if this dude
would have met me I really got a chance
to meet me for who I am as an individual
and not who I am because the
circumstances that I grew up and created
you just shut the whole doing so now I'm
shaking his dues hands and I don't even
really got no wet because any I'm gonna
be working against myself anything I'm
saying is gonna be counterproductive cuz
I'm even gonna have to dumb it down
already sound like I know it all so imma
just shut up it turned my stomach to see
our leader bowing down to another leader
enough to explain his troops his ranks
of his troops his status of his troops
to another general and when he was done
all dude was dead was like sorry dude
like ain't give a little cookie ain't
got no accolades hand give on over
button him going on all these niggas and
topping it I watch my man pretty flat
somebody got Google of too albeit
I watching go get a up two separate and
say I love you bro and ain't pushed eMac
she talk about
you love you fucking tell me that me so
like a fucking fag in me at that point
mean this dude taking this gangsta shit
too far we was out there they was
talking about his niggas flock was
fooling his shit I'll be honest there
was a block scene flock was filming the
shit go up to a are you ready separate
man laid up
he went there knowing that funny I'll be
enough when I'm gonna call that man
ain't gay til you get the fuck idea if I
said come on fuck dog it's pretty far
hey just a person that you do she did
this person this person this person is
pretty flat why nobody else around egg
why nobody else around able boss see all
the bosses get away from your mama boss
I'm the boss
everybody know that I'm a boss I'm the
boss let me keep talking about it
because I needed to clear my name
the islands fees don't damage
my boss real trick my oven or even
though my all-time I mean just even on
my off time look grinding I said shut
press he's black hoodies ain't nobody
see it yeah I ain't even see these
material yet I think I'm gonna do some
special thread like some gold thread or
something like that these you know I'm
I'm grinding I said press right there
when I get the ads I get to put the
patches and all that stuff on you know
it's all the crime every day is a crime
you know I don't have to worry about
that because even when I'm not in the
studio mister do you wonder why cuz
there's a glamour cuz it's always a
crime I always keep a grind going and I
always got reading for my little homies
even if they know no motherfucking
king-sized motherfucking elaborate shit
I don't have that right now I got clean
space for you I got two pressures I got
clothes I got money I got love and we
got a plan my nigga all that you got
soap water everything on behalf of my
homies I will ready living died for me
got the whole city ready kill one of
them cuz they want to stand by me but
I'm not doing what I need to do add
don't live in the city add don't live in
the city niggas can't go to AB house and
stay at AB house outside the city they
can go to the one in the city they're
not going in the one on sad don't live
in the city you keep talking about
somebody running you don't live in the
city you don't go to sleep in the city
at night you haven't went to sleep in
the city for years it doesn't make sense
to go to sleep in the city once you hit
a certain level it doesn't make sense
unless you're in the streets all day
then it makes sense
your phone's ain't it makes sense but
even then it don't make sense because
when you look at the rules the old rules
to monetize the old rules the old bosses
never did that they had cribs out in the
you know some of them had some down you
know but they never did
and out with the suburbs and they came
back and I ran the cities you fool I'm
saying like straight like that
and then and then when they went the war
they never pulled up on each other dude
what does nonsense anyway they went to
the mattresses check the facts check the
facts they went to undisclosed locations
and they don't strategic attacks to hurt
each other these dudes is on time fool
to me they not even know my time ain't
know I'm a general they don't tomfoolery
so even if a person could get a shot a
clean shot off he killed
bro they could never kill me wonder why
bro you want me to tell you why because
I affected too many people lives already
in the positive I unpacked it too many
people lives already in the positive
straight like that people don't aspire
to be AB as a regular person I got
people in this life that aspire to be me
as a regular person no rap no rank that
look up to me just because of the person
I am because of my character because of
the way I feel about things the way I
look at things the way I deal with
things how I aspire to be that dude man
his personal character people don't even
like him they come to us all the time
like me Carly catching the crumbs they
come to us because he won't do with the
right barrette I mean they know what's
up with me I just want to clear my name
I'm gonna get all the gangster shit out
decide I wanna I don't have to explain
myself to them but I do have to explain
myself to people that support my music
and feel as though I stand for certain
cause and being as though they seen but
they last seen over the last couple days
they might think that it they don't have
no reason to support when I can't get
more than one I'm not looking for new
supporters from problem that's not me
that's fully not me I'm looking at
terminator problem and I don't care
about what you see that's what y'all
seen that these things talking then I
have a reason to talk they don't have a
reason to talk none of them like they
don't have a reason to talk I don't want
to get it back in the fourth and then
they say he went crazy
happiness I'm looking at this beat
between me and my homies and it kind of
was like comic walk on I was like
clowning the niggas cuz I'm looking like
y'all niggas know what's that with me
like pros
like that's how I'm feeling so I kind of
like laughing at all joking and clowning
them or not
ain't nothing I start saying shit though
my brother you talking about my deceased
brother like damn walls like what type
of car would you with us
I was just with you you never was
talking that means you figure stuff I
still wish you your whole life you never
stood what your neighborhood facts
before anything ever happened to my
brother before any baby of that type of
stuff everyone knowing any type of rent
you know me any type of rap stuff or
anything like that Moss I was going to
crack I was going to Gratz and when I
wasn't going to crack I was coming to
Kratz fighting Moss from that
neighborhood the people that's from that
neighborhood will tell you
Moss never stood with them because I was
there
he never stood with them he actually
fought with me against his childhood
friends and that's what I for me that
always establish a strong bond with me
that's why I want another one again see
no I'm going against boss dude they play
that thing right boss gonna got me out
of here I wouldn't let must take me
anywhere even up a jewel we could go up
rise where they still went his way not
I'm deuce is rolling up and I mean I'm
gonna tell you how my mom no Morris my
to me and more school to it not my mama
Moss not my mom not my sister-in-law not
my Sonny moss not my daughter and moss
not my brother-in-law's not my dad
brought that Moss not me and Moss going
to it
Moss take to the internet just like the
rest of them niggas what it made you
figure shirt on re knew what was coming
after that once
I see Mansour the major figure showing
something he don't do something he say
he hate somebody say he viewed his clown
something he said like they never was
from around I said dead dog I never
would come up here because to me this up
dude I'm coming up in just sitting up
here moss-like Brody never ran this shit
down it has always been us the whole
time I ran in Sean since I was a kid and
I'm like alright so I'm comfortable here
and I'm comfortable pulling up that hht
mind you never had a problem with
rocking your chops they didn't it from
my neighborhood - you felt I'm saying it
wrong shit I grew up I like they they
see things in my neighborhood morning
Christie Christie was down on pizzas
cause they was all colorless tea and lid
don't come on the street shit you know
come down coming outside the same time
in the morning we had no problems so but
I always associated them with daily
because that's where I always knew 18
Street is that man mas told me something
different than having me pulling up half
an hour children feel uncomfortable just
doing it but kind of find out me it's
just so rude I got a little such I get
just so much stuff that dinner with this
whole situation I put in there for four
minutes straight like that whenever four
minutes MA I so much stuff doing it that
I did like all get hard the art man his
heart breathe his heart three
where is it but then you know it's just
like they say I don't want to patch it
up his nothing to patch up because are
you gonna tell that to my mom you know
like my mom like my mom and no problem
my mom may have no problem even though
he's going through shit my mom's like I
see it
y'all be hard the woman but they got
only told my fucker son like that fuck
niggas right I gotta carry like that in
there ok who nobody like that me I never
will see pieces once they say that I
fuck your sister okay sister fuck
everybody
fuck all your street like that I can't
just be talking crazy like that out of
anger
you can tell you what you want me on say
nothing about my brother cuz y'all
really meant it I can still see stuff
there aints they know about the anomaly
day and I won't
I won't I tell you that and I need to
say that about these Sicilian if you see
this sense I apologize well well yeah I
apologize
straight like that apologize for
disrespecting you in your family members
that ain't gonna do
nothing because at the end of the day
respondent and the like man wasn't awful
and I apologized and you know for sure
that that ain't the type of time that
I'm on TV
are they trying to make me seem like
something that is not ain't no any trees
I got all the sense in the world I was
doing thinking for them I was doing all
the critical thinking nobody gonna try
to tell you I ain't got no sense boy and
my mom said just calm manner and just
talk and that's what I did I hope that
y'all got AG understand I ain't beating
with these guys man and I ain't trying
plug my music and all this joint even I
get to the music later
it's kind of old my music up cuz I
really don't want to come out on look
and I mean so I get to the music later
but when guys movie got me to
deficiencies and he came through me some
real major deficiencies that Lilly D
probably can't recover from
I really can't recover from man's a
cesspool over there man a successful
little red school or that it's like
rampart division but y'all gotta be
disbanded I may add must everything up
you must all love but the air gets tough
y'all know the arrogant that's why y'all
listen to his music they don't only one
of them know his music keep them and
people that think that's accurate
depiction of what's going on in the hood
cuz anybody would have acted at the
picture that was gonna look not
listening to that a night and he not
that's people have been going to work
that's the tough guy Jay jobs soundtrack
like the you gotta come to work with the
headphones that a bananas their sound
check you film that you know like you're
don't you watch like bro you work like
why are you trying to be taught me why
is you appear so coming at every concert
talking my you respect that you were
like that's the people who I don't I
don't want them type of supporters I
want the people I want to challenge they
thought process I want to change the
footwork I want to change the path
they're going on in a positive direction
I want the people that's listening to
must
and really like yo I really went through
that or I really can see he went through
that and I don't want to go through it
I don't want you to stick a mop in the
boom dog a broom in the mop or the mop
and a broom I stuck a mop and a broom
I called going in good I tell leafy
comes shooter 50 baby bangs come soon
man
try give me something different nah man
I'm Jeong Gyo something different of
chögyal culture in Changi or finesse on
Changi or entrepreneurship my gear
motivation chuggy also love a legend
which is named after my brother I can't
do it on a platform of a sucker or a
sucker platform I can't
I'm sorry everybody talking about I
suppose don't be it you know I clarify
who I was from who they was not mean cuz
niggas know ain't no exposing them
niggas know they scared to say something
why cuz they scared the type of people
that get punched and don't punch back
I'd be scared every time I put my hands
up but I'm telling you my fear that I
feel inside of me does not make me
incapacitated any man does not leave me
incapacitated any man my fear is gonna
propel me and compel me to do some wild
nut shit at the minimum at the minimum
if I can't launch of focused
concentrated attack my fear is gonna
make me do so Wow dumb nut shit to
protect myself I had this fear that be
like you know I had to feel like hah get
the fuck outta here
like I got that type of fear like get
out here what are you doing why would
you jump out on me like that and
everybody know that about me so I don't
fear like that type of here like that oh
my god scared the shit out
no no no no that's not me thank for
having Preston with you guys and I
appreciate that
oh hi Willona preference now indeed
maybe drinking these John's of two
seconds and wonder why they body can't
take it the next day they put the
digestive that's like eating one and a
half apples one and a half one one and
one quarter cucumber a half a cup of
celery half a Kiwi now man I have a
banana I have a cup of kale and spinach
this is squeezed some lemon juice and
you eat all the things in five seconds
oh no no you eating all the nutrients
for those things and possibly if you got
a drink but your body absorb I mean
taste it expand your police your rises
may be mad are you done he does huh
I'll make sure y'all take him
don't make sure y'all Tiki can come back
and tell a by this why I'm going live
after meal now because he took my
Instagram laughs I mean I joined it
27,000 eme that song was lit I mean we
take stuff let's go
now let us see this state diagram I
already told you what are the states and
now let us see the relationship which
means are what are the events that will
trigger the transition from one state to
the other state so now if you look at
the state diagram first thing is you
will be in the new state new statements
of the process is not created the
process is about to be created so new
state is in the secondary memory which
means here you can call that process as
if program itself right and once it is
created it will move to the ready state
so ready means it is ready to run that
is the meaning of it and at any time
many number of process can be ready now
one thing you should decide is how many
states can be in the ready at any time
right that is a good decision that is
the actual decision you should take the
reason is depending on the resources you
have you can get those many processes
let us say you have 1000 processes
available in the hard disk which want to
run but then are the programs right but
then you cannot run all the programs
into you cannot bring all of them into
the main memory at the same time
therefore depending on your resources
you can decide about how many process
can be in the ready state at any time
right so generally this depends on the
memory and once you are in the ready
state you can schedule the process
scheduling scheduling or dispatch means
we are picking it up and then we are
sending it right so and run it so doing
it and running it is nothing but get you
know giving it to the CPU so once the
CPU takes the process it will execute it
and the process completed which means
completion then it will terminate so the
final stage is termination if everything
happens smoothly right then this is the
best thing that could happen see this
new state ready state run state and
terminations therefore minimum number of
states a process can go through is
actually from here to here how much for
I mean at least you have to take four
states see if this is the state diagram
given the name you know state number of
states which are required to go from
here to here is four it is like this
maybe you can compare it to a DFA where
you have transitions that what is the
smallest string that would
accepted by the EDFA right similarly how
many minimum number of states are
required to go from ready state to
termination state fine and now once you
are in ready state there are various
things that could happen or let's say
you are in running state which means you
are given the process for running then
first thing is the process might contain
I told you that a process might contain
2 times 1 is CPU time manager is i/o
time if a process is having lot of CPU
time to be performed then it is called a
CPU boned a processor process if it is
having a lot of aegyo to perform that is
called aegyo bond process right there
are two categories CPU and I go now if
you are in this run straight wash it if
you're in this run straight and suddenly
you get a io request which means a
process is actually suddenly asking for
it
I would say I wou write input/output
then if we ask for it then you are going
to send it to the wait or block state
which means the process should not be
again shade you'll immediately yy-you
should be sent to a different state why
not the ready state is if it is asking
for i/o if you again put it back in the
ready state then again what happens is
you might against you know should you
look for running and again it will ask
for i/o therefore unless it will not a
man until it's enter I was over and
until you are sure that once you get it
back to the running state it will run
smoothly without asking for i/o let it
be there right so don't don't get it
back it is digit like this you are just
making sure that a process which will
come to the running state will always be
ready to run it should not ask for I
were at all if you should make that
happen then let it go and wait in some
other state until it finishes as I go
and next time again when it comes to the
running state it will run only on CPU
without asking per I go so that is where
we are going to have this wait state got
it wait or block now once the i/o
request is over which means it has a
request for a disciple and I was
completed maybe it wants to print
something once it's printing is over or
maybe it wants to read
once the trading is over then we can
again put it back to ready because now
it can again go to the CPU and run
without any disturbance without asking
for any i/o and now once you are in
ready running a running state you could
again go back to the ready state because
of various parameters one parameter is
priority what does it means maybe you
must be having a process which is
running in the CPU and suddenly a very
high important process came into the
picture then what you should do you
should stop it and then send it back to
ready and should you the high important
process right that is one thing which
means priority will cause a process to
get preempted so because of this
transition this transition this entire
thing will be multi program okay is it
multi programming yes the reason is
there can be many process in the ready
state that is where is multi programming
and now look at this transition because
of this transition we are stopping a
process while it is running and sending
it back to ready even if it is ready I
am not running it I am again sending it
back at to wait in the ready State right
because of this transition it is called
preemption it is multitasking or multi
programming with preemption right and
what are the other events that will
cause the preemption is one this
priority and other is time quantum so
whenever you decide that I knew only
this particular amount of time to each
one and after that time I want to keep
on changing the process you might decide
about it
right so whenever the time quantum
expires or whenever you need more
priority or whenever you get a process
with higher priority you are again going
to send it back to the ready therefore
this transition indicates preemption on
it okay so now these are the basically
these five are the basic states which
are required in every almost every
operating system which means it will be
in the new ready running termination and
greater block and the other one is
depending on your requirement and
resources sometimes your resources will
be two squares that you want to suspend
some process for some time right so for
that reason we are going to have one
more state called else suspend wait and
suspend ready so what is the
significance of this process this state
is I told you
whenever we have a process on some
process in the main memory and if you
don't have memory for the new process
but the new process is very important
that you should make a room for it then
we just push some of the process outside
to the secondary memory then that is
called as suspend ready if the pushing
is occurring from the ready state then
they will go to suspend ready
similarly the pushing is occurring from
the wait or block state then they will
go to the suspend wait either this to
suspend wait or suspend ready this both
these two are in the secondary memory
see this is in the secondary memory main
memory main memory that is not not
required and wait or block is in the
main memory and these two are in
secondary memory right and now once you
decide that it has to be suspended they
will go there and once you decide that
okay I mean I have the memory I have the
resources then I get in a resume which
means then I get come back similarly
once you decide that you should suspend
it there will be in the suspense state
and once you resume it they will come
back and look at the relationship
between these two states is in that you
have pushed out a memory enough process
from ma I know main memory to secondary
memory while it is doing some aegyo one
more thing in order to do an eye bow the
process need not be in the main memory
it could be in the secondary memory also
even when you push a process to the
secondary memory the i/o which it has
initiated will still continue without
any you know disruption interruption
therefore without any problem the i/o
will continuously keep on happening
right therefore once you are pushing in
from here to here a process that will
keep continuing it cyber work and once
it's i/o is over it is actually ready
now isn't it
that is why we move it from suspend way
to suspend ready so that next time it
will directly come to ready isn't it if
you let this state the process be here
itself even not a finishing its I hope
then once you resume it it will come to
the block or wait state that is why we
just push it here right and from here it
can directly come to this ready state
got it now if you watch it there are
three kinds of decisions we are taking
one decision is how many process to
create and once you decide about it you
have to live with it completely once
create a process you should if you
should keep it in any of these states
and throw it out without doing - no
without finishing you should not do
anything right therefore here by now you
are creating the process how many
processes should should you do it create
it that is a long term decision right
and this is taken by long term scheduler
so first there are three types of
schedulers here one is long term
scheduler second is short term scheduler
third is medium term scheduler so long
term scheduler makes the decisions about
how many processes should be made once
it has taken the decision the decision
is going to last for a long time that is
what is called as long term scheduler
right and come into the short term
scheduler what it means is now once you
have a pool of you know process
available ready for running then we are
going to pick one of them isn't it then
that is a short-term decision the reason
is that decision is not going to last
forever only for that one cause of it's
going to be valued and once the process
completes execution or once it goes out
to the you know wait block it is going
to be invalid right
therefore what is the meaning of this
short term ends this decision will not
last forever and short term decision is
made here right so short term is made by
short term scheduler and it is also
called as dispatcher dispatcher or short
term scheduler and second thing is
whenever your memory is full you are
going to suspend it right and either
from here or here right either you are
going to suspend from here or suspend
from here that suspension decision is
going to be made by medium-term
scheduler because once you suspend it it
is not going to be there forever or it
is not going to be there for a small
amount of time that is what is called
medium-term decision it is called as
medium-term scheduler okay now we are
talking about this schedulers there are
three types of individuals long-term
short-term and medium-term so MIT
we can call it as midterm scheduler
short term and long term so long term
decisions of when to create a process
right as I said but then this is also
called as degree of multi-programming
degree of multi-programming is degree of
multi-programming degree of
multiprogramming is number of processes
that can be present in the ready State
at maximum so if you say the degree of
multiprogramming is 100 it means that
you will have at any time 100 processes
which are ready to run in you're ready
that is a maximum number of process you
cannot go beyond 100 but then it does
not mean that you cannot have less than
100 right so degree of multi-programming
is decided by long term cost sir if it
converts 100 process to the ready state
then a degree of multiprogramming
becomes 100 and once they are in ready
they can just you know scramble
themselves among all these states that
is okay but then the main diction is
taken by long term now long term
processor decisions are going to have
significant impact on the performance of
the system assume that long term
scheduler has chosen all the jobs which
are raw I hope on which means all the
jobs required to do more I work than any
other work if that is the case and what
happens is most of the time CPU will be
idle because whenever you pick a job and
give it that is already going to always
going to block state and all the process
might go to block state if all of them
are I know I will bond are your bond
means they need lots of pyro and CPU one
mill they need lots or CPU right then if
you choose only a CPU bound obviously
the performance or the utilization of
4cp is going to be high that is for sure
and when CP is going to be busy all the
time but then what happens to the jobs
that does not have only you know CPU
time I mean if the jobs are not just CPU
oriented if they have even i/o I were to
be performed then what happens to told
those jobs they will completely get
started there for long term scheduler
should have a mix of it proper mix of it
you should take a combination of some of
them from the or CPU bound and some
of them from the IO bond and you should
have a mix of it so that even if one of
the process waiting in the this weight
of block state other process will be
running right so that is how you should
have a mix of it or long term processor
in furnace regimen is going to affect
the performance of the system a lot and
then the short term up you know
scheduler the short term scheduler will
pick a stay know system from here and
will give it to this right but actually
there is there is a some operating
system say that there is something
called as dispatcher which is no they
combine this with the short term but
then you can think of it like this short
term fraudulent will decide which
process to be executed next and then
after deciding it it will call
dispatcher dispatcher now dispatcher is
the bus software which is responsible
for going astray no process from here to
here and then a new process from here to
here right therefore whenever you try to
change any stay any process from the CPU
you will first call the short-term per
shred Euler which will choose a process
to be scheduled and then short-term
scheduler will call the dispatcher
dispatcher will do the remaining work
what is it it will pull out one one
process and put the other process there
it is called as context switching
context switching means you should
replace completely the status of the CPU
with the status of the new process from
the old process right now context
fishing is nothing but saving the
context and then updating the context
right now this depends on this time
taken to do this context fishing depends
on the size of the context if the size
of the context is too big then
everything has to be moved out and then
moved in and then updated everything has
to be done right therefore the size of
the context has to be as minimal as
possible so that the context fishing
time is going to be very less right so
here the delay here the what are the
main things that you get
today's you should have a very good
short-term processor but short-term
scheduler so that it will pick up the
process in such a way that there will be
less number of you know contact switches
because every context which is going to
take some time that is called as context
switching time that depends on the size
of the context right so what do I mean
by it is if p1 is executing if p1 has to
be removed and P 2 has to be get on you
should you should change this you should
remove this and then you should schedule
it right therefore it is going to take
some time that is for context switching
time right and then that is all about
this our dispatcher and then short of
regular and next one is medium term so
medium term is not not that important in
a sense if the resources are not
available to just suspend and resume
right so when it is also available in
resume and it is so not available it
will suspend right and it is going to
impact something called as packing this
is called slapping slapping is moving a
process from the main memory to the
secondary memory and then getting it
back is called slapping so you need an
efficient you know medium-term scheduler
so that this fapping is going to be less
because fapping is going to take consume
amount of considerable amount of time
you are going to know send a process to
the main memory this secondary memory
and again ii remember he has to come
back right so here you should make one
decision about what kind of you know
process has to be moved out so that this
fat thing has to be as less as possible
about it so long term impacts the long
term scheduler is really related to
performance overall performance and
short term scheduler is related to
context switching time therefore it also
impacts the performance and the medium
term modular it actually impacts this
lapping time or this facking their fully
to has a you know impact on the
performance anyway all these three are
going to have some impact on the
performance of the system not it
[Music]
okay now I've gained a little bit of a
reputation as a fella here and as much
as it may seem that way what my two
videos presenting Ben Simmons and not
the most positive of ways I'm gonna be
honest I'm still a little hesitant and
Trust in the process not because of a
lack of talent because I believe the
76ers have some of the most talented
young players in the world I just worry
about how but I still do believe they'll
make the playoffs this year and after
about research about this one guy who's
now on their books I'm really starting
to buy into this whole process thing and
when talking about potential and overall
sealing those few guys that come close
to this guy but before I tell you guys
who this says we need to recap the
process all over so back in 2015 the
Philadelphia 76ers with the fertile raw
egg made a massive mistake they could
have almost assured a future dynasty for
an unknown reason with the third overall
pick the 76ers were in the market for a
third Center and they had one of two
choices select the projected top to peck
to still remained on the board in Jahlil
Okafor first talented and is dominant as
he was in college his place that was
dated to not what most teams look for
for their big man in today's game or
they could have taken a gamble on the
kid from Europe the 7-foot three power
forward from Latvia who although raw
showed glimpses of transcendent
potential some even before the draft
would argue at the most potential of a
seven-foot jump shoots and Dirk Nowitzki
the 76ers weren't willing to take the
gamble which is kind of odd considering
you're supposed to trust the process and
it would make sense to have trust in the
player that has the most potential but
anyway that's none of my business
instead they took the same pecking
jahlil okafor
in three years later is rotting away on
the 76ers bench while porzingis is
showing signs that he could become one
of the best players in the league
looking back this choice ought to stay
for the 76ers
could you imagine a front court with
porzingis at the four and then be at the
five what semijns orchestra in the
offense worth less years number one pick
Markel folks out there getting buckets -
oh god that wouldn't be legal depending
on how you feel about the tones
porzingis comparison although i'd give
cat the edge at this moment in time you
can make the argument that I've had the
player looking back these have selected
number one overall from the past four
draft
although they don't f dot not choosing
porzingis the section still look to be
in a great position going forward as a
steal and Dario Sarich makes up from the
lack of productivity was seen from
Okafor and probably well I've received
from him as long as he remains a sec sir
but the porzingis and be like pipe dream
is by no means dead because what nobody
drew attention to was that this
any sections moving up from the fudge to
first Peck to get folks wasn't their
only big move on draft night because the
76ers saw an opportunity late in the
first round to make up for the decision
to pass on KP trading away future first
and second rep x4 prospect rituals
alarming Samaras to his national
teammate porzingis so we're going to
take a step back to draft night and I'm
just going to watch over this video
about themselves were pronouncing his
name right guys I'm just gonna be 100%
upfront with you my audio recording has
been going on for like 10 minutes and
I've been watching videos over and over
again try to pronounce this guy's name I
just can so I'm just gonna butcher it
introducing Ahn's age passage it might
be the player who completes the process
okay before we go more in depth about
passage next specifically I want to
further develop the porzingis comparison
crest tops are 22 year olds coming off
the sophomore year stands at 7 foot 3
240 pounds hacen asia a year younger at
21 was last recorded at 7 to 220 pounds
so their body frame and build is really
similar so yeah that's the obvious one
out the way but i promise you guys is
more to this comparison than them both
being latvian 7/3 that came from
overseas in Europe to the NBA both
traditionally speaking because of the
height should be sent as a buffer
capable don't get me wrong but the
personal preference is to be run at the
four-four strictly defensive purposes
due to the lien belt their numbers
overseas are pretty comparable well
porzingis averaging 11 points 5 rebounds
on 50% through shooting in the spinal
year before declaring for the draft in
fact five percent from three-point line
although not quite as good as KP only
averaging seven points and four rebounds
passage snakes however was a far more
efficient three point church and 44
percent from downtown but let's focus
more solely on passage Knicks and what
he brings to the table as a basketball
prospect he's displayed outstanding
mobility and solid offensive skills and
workouts for his teams he excels at
catching lobs and finishing around the
basket and could become a dangerous
Peckinpah players he continues to
improve on it's already consistent
jumper he has the first bit to defend
adequately and can get off the ground to
block shots impressively
you can put the ball on the floor and
attack the rim to passage links needs to
however continue bulking up in order to
defend the post its defensive rebounding
isn't all that great but in its defense
it's a late bloomer and relatively
inexperienced as it stands he's a
project and not aim be ready as of yet
so what the sexers will do is send them
overseas to develop for maybe a couple
more seasons he's another one of many
valuable assets Philly after work
because of the weaknesses I mentioned
it's not quite ready to play in the NBA
but considering all his potential he was
worth taking a chance on late in the
first round and how did you overcome
remains to be seen but I tell you I'm
all in on his hype and I think you guys
should be too and yeah guys that's all I
have in store for today's second upload
I really hope you guys did enjoy this
video if you did be sure to drop a like
on this video I know you guys want me to
upload more of a variety of videos
opposed to just the ball brothers all
the time so I'll do that and I feel this
was quite an interesting video should be
much appreciated if you could drop a
like on this video and let's aim for 400
likes we're so close to 27 K guys if we
could hit that goal today it would be
absolutely amazing turn on notifications
so you never miss a lot blowed Instagram
that's what links are down below in the
description and will not know its de
Kamp's I know I love your mo peace
my name is dr. Mike Murphy I'm an
assistant professor of computer science
and information systems at Coastal
Carolina University in this lecture
which is presented in two parts I will
begin discussing processes I will
introduce the process model discuss the
type of information associated with the
process give an overview of process
state and introduce the concept of
process forking as is usually the case
my presentation is focused on unix-like
systems let's begin by defining what a
process is a process is an instance of a
computer program in execution when we
ask computer system to run a program the
code for that program is loaded from
disk into memory and executed as a
process in the system on some platforms
processes might be called jobs or tasks
on a modern system a process consists of
one or more threads of execution in
other words a process can execute one
instruction at a time or it can execute
several instructions at the same time on
the CPU each process on the system
receives its own private allocation of
resources each process also has access
to its own data and the operating system
maintain statistics about each process
in order to make effective scheduling
decisions in memory a process is divided
into segments program code and other
read-only data are placed into the text
segment global variables in a program
have their own data segment that allows
both reading and writing automatic
variables or local variables and
functions are allocated at compile time
and placed on the stack data structure
is explicitly allocated at runtime or
placed on the heat as memory is used by
a process the stack and the heap grow
toward each other if a process makes use
of shared libraries these libraries are
mapped into process memory between the
stack and the
in order to track processes correctly
and allow multiple processes to share
the same system the operating system
must track some information that is
associated with each process this
information includes the memory that the
process is using as well as the current
location in the process code that is
executing known as the process program
counter the operating system must also
track other resources in use by a
process including which files are
currently open and any network
connections the process is using in
addition to the information generated by
the process itself the operating system
must keep scheduling information and
statistics about each process this
information includes a unique identifier
or process ID it can be used to
distinguish processes from each other in
order to arbitrate access to system
resources the operating system must also
store information about the owner of a
process so that permissions can be
enforced correctly to facilitate
scheduling decisions the operating
system collects various statistics about
process execution such as the amount of
CPU time consumed and the amount of
memory used during the lifetime of a
process the process moves between
several states when a process is first
created it is initially in the new state
once creation is complete and the
process is ready to run it transitions
to the ready state where it waits to be
assigned to a CPU core when the
scheduler selects a ready process to run
that process is moved to the running
state and is given cpu resources during
execution a process might request
external resources such as disk i/o
since these resources take time to
provide the process is moved out of the
running state and into the waiting state
so that the CPU core can be given to
another process finally when a process
is finished it is placed in the
terminated state so that the operating
system can perform cleanup tasks before
destroying the process instance
completely
in this diagram we can see how processes
may transition between states at
creation time a process is placed into
the new state while the operating system
allocates initial memory and other
resources once creation is complete the
process is admitted to the system and
placed in the ready state whenever a CPU
core is available to execute a process
it is dispatched to the running state
where it executes execution of a process
can be interrupted for a variety of
reasons if a hardware interrupt occurs
the operating system might have to move
the process off the CPU core in order to
service the interrupt returning the
process to the ready state or the
process might make an i/o request in
which case the process is moved to the
waiting state while the system waits on
the relatively slow IO device to provide
the requested data once IO is complete
the process is moved back to the ready
state so that it can be scheduled to run
again whenever a CPU core becomes free
upon exiting the process is moved to the
terminated state for cleanup the
mechanism for process creation is
platform dependence I will be
introducing process creation on a
unix-like platform such as Linux or Mac
OS 10 on these platforms all processes
descend from a single parent process
that is created by the kernel at boot
time on Linux this first process is
called a nit which is the common UNIX
name for the first created process Apple
decided to call this process launch D on
Mac OS 10 by convention the initial
process always has a process ID of 1 the
initial process must also remain alive
for the entire time the system is up and
running otherwise the whole computer
crashes with the kernel panic the anit
or launch D process is started by the
kernel at boot time every other process
on the system is a child of this special
process child processes on UNIX are
created by forking a parent process the
parent process makes a system call named
fork which makes a copy of the parent
process this copy which is initially a
clone of the parent is called the child
process it is up to the parent process
to determine what if any resources it
will share with the child process by
default the parent process shares any
open file descriptors network
connections and other resources apart
from the CPU and memory with the child
however the program code can close or
reassign resources in the child making
the child completely independent of the
parent once the child process is forked
the child becomes an independent
instance of the program which can be
scheduled to run in parallel with the
parent however the parent process can be
coded to wait on the child process to
finish executing before the parent
proceeds furthermore the parent process
is able to terminate the child process
at any time on some systems termination
of the parent process will terminate all
child processes automatically on other
systems child processes become orphan
processes whenever the parent terminates
unix-like systems including Linux have
the ability to support both models any
process including a child process has
the ability to load a different program
into its memory space this loading is
accomplished via the exec system call
which replaces the entire program code
of the process with the program code
from a different program new programs on
unix-like systems are started by forking
an existing program then exacting the
new program in the child process when
multiple processes are executing on the
same system they have the ability to
execute independently or share
information between themselves an
independent process is completely
separate from other processes in the
system its execution is not affected by
other processes and it cannot affect
other processes as long as the operating
system is designed
implemented correctly alternatively
processes could share information
between themselves and thereby affect
each other when this occurs we say that
the processes are cooperating
cooperating processes may be used for a
variety of reasons including information
sharing implementing high-performance
parallel computation increasing the
modularity of a program implementation
or simply for convenience when
implementing certain designs in part 2
of this lecture I will provide
additional detail about process forking
and executing new programs
you
hey guys mark here I hope you're all
doing well
in today's video I'm going to cover the
tying off white for part Turks head
knots now I have done two videos
covering white three parts Turks head
knots and this is one that covers four
part Turks head knots we're going to
focus on Turks head knots tied using
enlargement process number one let's get
into it now for demonstrating these
Turks heads the setup is always going to
be the same I'm going to have a mandrel
in my case a PVC pipe onto which I have
attached a rubber band a piece of
paracord is going to be used to tie the
knots one end is going to be tucked
under the rubber band while the working
end we'll have a leasing needle attached
the lacing needle is not absolutely
needed to tie these knots but it is very
useful with the set let's get to the
demonstration of these knots the first
knot that we're going to type is going
to be the four part three bite Turks
head this knot is going to be used to
recap enlargement process number one in
its essence this knot is more of a
square Turks head than it is a white
Turks head this is because the
difference between the parts as well as
the bytes is only one so this is going
to be our warm-up not in which we repeat
enlargement process number one and we're
going to upgrade this process when we
are tying the actual wider knots I'm
going to grab my paracord
and I'm going to make a turn around my
mandrel then I'm going to come over the
standing end like this and then around
[Music]
we are now
at the spot where we start enlargement
process number one to do it we're first
going to double up the strength going
towards the right side so in this case
we're going to double up the standing
end we double it up by traveling
alongside it under one then we're going
to travel towards the left side and an
enlargement process number one we
usually go the opposite of this strand
so the opposite to the strand that's
going towards the left side to do this
we're going to travel under then over
like this we are now
to the standing end which we have
doubled using this strand so we have two
parallel strands we split them by
traveling the opposite of what these two
strands are doing and we travel between
them so we're going to go over then
under like this and again in enlargement
process number one when traveling
towards the left side we go the opposite
to this strand so we're going to start
over then under and then over
then all we do to finish the knot is
place or working and next to the
standing end going under the one
[Music]
after tying or warm-up not we're going
to continue with a proper white Turks
head not we're going to tie a four part
seven bite Turks head to start this note
I'm again going to take my piece of
paracord do a wrap around come over the
standing end then around again so just
like in the previous note at this point
I'm going to double up the standing end
again just like in the previous knot and
now I'm going to do a little trick I'm
going to take my working end and move it
down a bit then travel with my working
hand over this strand so over now at
this point I'm going to continue with
enlargement process number one so I'm
going to first double up the Strand
going towards the right side so I'm
going to double up the standing end I'm
going to continue by going the opposite
to the Strand going towards the left
side so under over
then add the next bite I'm going to
double up the strand going towards the
right side so this one to do this I'm
going to travel over then under like
this then finally add the next bite I'm
again going to go the opposite to this
strand going towards the left side so
I'm going to travel under then over
I now have a set of parallel strands
that I need to split the first set is
going to be the standing end and the
cord going parallel to it I'm going to
travel between them and split them by
going over then under like this then I'm
going to spread apart the next set of
parallel strands and I'm going to split
them going over under over then I'm
going to spread apart the next set of
parallel strands and I'm going to split
them going under over under and finally
I'm going to split the last set of
parallel strands going over under and
over now
I simply place my working hand next to
the standing end and this completes the
knot we have tied a four part seven bite
Turks head now to drive the point home
I'm also going to show you how to tie an
even wider for part Turks head so this
time we're going to tie a four part 11
bite Turks head I'm going to tie this
knot very similarly to the previous one
but it's going to be a bit wider so
again I'm going to take my paracord do a
wrap around come over the standing end
around again then with my working end
I'm going to travel parallel to the
standing end so at this point we have
the same setup as in the previous note
we are again going to do the track but
instead of doing it once we are going to
do it twice now we're going to need a
bit more room here so I'm going to move
my working end down down down almost all
the way to the standing end like this
then moving back to the standing end I'm
going to take my working end and I'm
going
pass over this strand so you can see
that I passed over then I'm going to go
parallel to the standing end like this
so I did my trick once now I'm going to
do it for a second time so over this
strand with my working and then double
up the standing end
we're now going to do enlargement
process number one so from right to left
we always go the opposite of this strand
so under over
then from left to right we always double
up this strand so we're going to go over
under
then again from right the left we're
going to go the opposite of this strand
so under over
and again from left to right we're going
to double up this strand so over under
and one more time from right to left
we're going to go the opposite of this
strand so under over
now at this point we're going to have to
split the two parallel strands going
through the knot so we start over under
in between the standing end and the
Strand that's doubling it up so over
under next we need to find the two
parallel strands here like this and
we're going to go between them going
over under over
then again find
parallel strands and go under
under then find the next set of parallel
strands and go over under over and the
next set of parallel strands
under over under
and the final set of parallel strands
read apart the strands and go over under
over then place your working end right
next to the standing end and you have
tied your not now the notice a bit
distorted so I'm going to work in some
slack into the knot to make it look
better but all in all this is a proper
four part eleven bite Turks head so guys
with this I have shown you how to tie
various four part Turks heads we only
covered enlargement process number one
and a video on enlargement process
number two is soon to follow with that
said I hope that this tutorial wasn't
too hard
thank you and see you next time
you
it was up guys in this video I'm going
to be demonstrating my experimental
process it's a good idea to from time to
time just experiment and just kind of
not follow any rules or formulas so
basically I want to be I want to make a
pluck and how I do that basically with
my muscle memory is I just just an
envelope to the filter cutoff and you
know from there I you know I had effects
and whatnot but you know using a saw and
a filter that's kind of you know yeah
that's good but I want to experiment and
how I'm going to do that is I'm going to
essentially limit myself and I'm gonna
start let's see I'm just gonna start
with a sine wave if I want to try to
make a neat look at a neat sounding
pluck with just a sine wave so I'm gonna
do that the oscillator a is gonna be a
sine wave and also there B is going to
be its modulator I'm gonna kind of do
some fm
if you've watched my videos you know
that I'm not particularly I don't use FM
that much it's just something that I
don't really do actually I'm doing this
backwards gonna FM from B and make sure
this is another sine wave I don't want
any saws envelope to to FM bring that
down maybe a bit faster alright that's
cool
so what I'm gonna do is add in harmonics
using distortion and I'll just bring
that way up not that much and maybe
bring
octave up two octaves up now we're
getting somewhere
let's see here you got a soft clip maybe
hard clip and maybe drop this to an
envelope using LFO 1 as an envelope make
it a little more of an attack maybe give
it a pre-filter alright let's add a
delay of it
eighth and then maybe a 16th yeah maybe
some reverb plate give it a bit of size
more of a decay spin maybe cool all
right let's go EQ maybe bring this down
[Music]
[Music]
all right so what's really cool about
this is there's no filter tracking on
the pre-filter or the distortion so
these ones down here are kind of
occupying this area and then these notes
up here are being basically bitten by
this resonance peak here I'm going to
make sure that's model right that's
pretty neat
and yeah why not let's uh get another
envelope here just to kind of shape it
this is something that I like to do
using the UQ had a bit of an attack to
the high end it acts as a transient
shaper same kind of concept right as you
go up the sounds get different so it's
like every note is kind of a different
sound really or every octave is a
different sound different timbre and
yeah from here we can get we can get
pretty pretty creative maybe like
another filter I'm just going kind of
weird here
like a band now that must bring the went
down alright yeah that's basically
basically that's how you have it cool
thing is you can have you can send
shapes directly out so it'll completely
bypass all of this you can kind of add
in cleaner sounds really what's really
important is we add envelope to that so
it's something kind of directly in the
middle kind of carry it from there let's
go let's mmm from sub ask the sine wave
that's modulating the first sine wave or
decay maybe
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
that's not too bad and you know let's
give it a bit of dimension or lack of a
better term maybe not so much that maybe
this be just two times unison right down
a little bit too much maybe a chorus
[Applause]
all right basically we got I guess I
know a pluck of some sort what we can do
is maybe some to the fine-tuned picture
with this Scylla foe just for a bit of
attitude yeah okay so maybe a compressor
at the end here and this is all within
Sturm I'm just bringing you through a
process that may or may not be useful
but and this this plug-in can be pretty
devastating let's bring our the
compressor the multiband version our
option can be pretty pretty intense
they'll bring the master down
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
right we're getting somewhere you know
and there's plenty of space down here or
other kind of plugins and stuff like
that we can really add it to defy this
bring the gain I can ratio up just let's
uh let's get wild I'm frightened
[Music]
and low-end I really like that maybe a
little bit of reverb which is coming
through through the compressor all sorts
of stuff
bring down the chorus see what it sounds
like without to bed maybe bring down the
mix a bit more in the reverb
[Music]
[Music]
right maybe get a groove like that just
by accident and yeah that's just a basic
kind of starting point just kind of
doing things in a different way which I
kind of have done they're just kind of
applied what I usually do to things that
I wouldn't normally do to get something
like that which sounds pretty cool maybe
we can bring that down an octave right
and you can make the next the next
banger doing something like that yeah
you just imagine with the kick
underneath that you might get some neat
and this is basically how I go about
writing music anyway I've gone on long
enough I hope you learn stuff take care
and have a good one maybe I'll do
another one of these alright see ya
[Music]
to make a chain a turning drum uncoils
this wire rod and pulls it through a
steel guide ring to a steel draw box
grease inside the box lubricates the
wire on its way out of the box the wire
goes through a die such as the one being
demonstrated here the die has a smaller
diameter than the wire and as the
turning drum pulls it through the wire
Narrows hardens and become stronger now
electrically driven tools move in from
all sides this is a forming machine a
tool called a jaw propels the wire
forward while another jaw pushes on the
wire bending it around a steel pin it
forms a c-shape another forming tool
closes the c completing one link in the
chain and then another jaw makes the
next link this machine is making jack
chain which is usually used to hang
lights another forming machine makes a
chain that can haul a heavier load a
grip pulls the wire onto rollers that
straighten it out
steel cutters now make notches on both
sides of the wire these notches mark the
place where the wire is to be sliced
into link sized pieces a mechanized
knight makes the final cut at the
notches next roller arms loop a cut
piece of wire around a steel finger the
roller arms make it look easy but
they're actually exerting tons of
pressure in order to shape this wire
after the rollers form the link a pliers
like tool grabs it and turns it around
this positions the completed link so
that it can connect with the next link
as it's shaped now a pulley system drops
the freshly welded chain into a heat
treating coil an electrical current runs
through the copper coil heating the
chain inside until it's orange hot 1724
degrees Fahrenheit the pulleys lowered
the chain into a tub of water to cool
the extreme temperature change alters
the molecular structure of the steel
making it much harder but the experience
leaves the chain a bit brittle so it
goes into a second heat coil that's not
as hot as the first one and then into
another cool bath this takes away the
brittleness and gives the steel a bit of
stretch
you
check out my anaconda gospel parody on
my YouTube channel and don't forget to
go purchase it on last episode of the
process Regina bumblebee here reporting
to you live from these dumping grounds
of a very notorious villain named Miss
Bossy that's end of the day I'm 35 no
ring and no baby if this is what he
likes and what it takes to get that ring
oh come on personal problem that's
sacred that you said you want to keep
with you until you're great so you
remember that you said you were gonna
tell us all I want you to take her
virginity I can't believe it she's 35
years old it's still a virgin how
pathetically sick how long did I give
you three weeks all right you disappoint
me Mikey
you don't do what I say that ambulance
that just roll by you'll be in both
let me crack Oh bleep yeah yeah yeah you
but I little oh you better be glad I'm
faith and the holy jesus is going
you that boy for the barbershop
you remember me color top color top
don't forget it
okay I'll excuse you only cuz you sexy
you know you got nice eyes and nice
teeth and you guys that wash for wash
for me thanks what's wrong with you you
got a lot on your mind
like me no you know bossy yeah I know I
got read about see she ain't coming back
she gone
go go it's gone yeah she go that's like
you're at by you remember you were so
nice and you hovered over me like an
angel from the sky and you told me to go
talk to my pastors I went to go talk to
me taught me how to praise and talking
tongues as he is it stuff like that I
can sit her down to ales she ain't gonna
make no time soon no time soon no I
don't know what you consider a long time
or not but she's already back what you
mean she babe like she's back back like
she was waiting for me after the barber
shot back saying that it's my fault that
you talked to the pastor I told you to
talk to the pastor but I didn't tell you
to go try to kill the lady now she's
saying that I'm in some type of debt
with her and I owe her until I pay it so
thank you color top thank you so much
for all your help
because you ruined my life again I bet
you shiny like he was trying to like
check me get me in my place like you was
dumb man like woman shut up I like that
stuff I really do that's telling me oh
it's okay no it's okay you know you can
check me all you want soon all you won't
see which I'll nice wash for wash for
yes but I didn't appreciate her being up
on my man's face you said she was
waiting for you waiting for you like you
was about to take her out for like a
free meal at Applebee's or something
like that you know I'm saying trying to
get a three from one that's what you do
for me not for her Oh unacceptable okay
first off I've never taken you to
Applebee's and second of y'all know I
probably won't I'm sorry baby
that lady is a dang devil she gave me an
assignment that I need to complete in
three weeks I only have three weeks
she's saying if I don't do it she's
gonna expose my business the people that
she shouldn't oh like a secret top
secret oh boy
tell me tell me tell adults feel it all
on me
all on me yes skittles if I told you I
would have to kill you
it's countertop oh dang and you ain't
gonna kill me boy so crazy that's what
you supposed alaya
okay serious and stuff look I will help
you I am here for you baby
okay look um I got an ideas you know
what you needs to do here to call my
pastor you'll bury it boy you need to
come to church with me tis Sunday that's
what you need to do you know that's
actually not a bad idea
I know I know where exactly is it uh I
will you know text it to you
everything that you need I will text to
see you just take my number
go ahead pull out your phone so you can
get my numbers told me that you should
have already had my number the first
time you met me you should have asked
for it but it's okay I will excuse you
okay come on why you ain't taking my
number oh oh so you think I'm just gonna
call you all the time huh you then won't
text you every five minutes
stop your Facebook page and yo Instagram
and your Twitter and stuff like that be
trying to FaceTime you sending you a
little video says I'm awesome I love you
boo-boo little means I'm awesome this
could be us filling up your voicemail
and your email and your mailbox a little
letter semi subs that you let me check
yes or no I don't do it I do not do that
type of stuff
I am a fan spit I fancy that you even
think that about me anyways are you
gonna give it to me you know you want my
number
this is ordained by God we are a power
couple you see we are like Beyonce and
jay-z under my baby see don't say yeah
we needs to go on tour huge we need to
go on tours
thank God you ain't got that nose though
jay-z is huge okay
that boy it's not a whole world I've
also piace where us blue blue change
your diapers girl chaser you smell
everything
no that's look like you ain't got that
nose cuz you look like John Lee you like
I'm on the front Ryland you just singing
to me making me just want to throw
my color to bone at you nothing else
nothing else that I will wear under my
clothes
I don't do color top Christian say
hallelujah
hey baby can I have my moments can hire
my mommy's phone is maimoni
thank you for wiping my tears you ready
yeah
all right easy citizen by saving saving
saving
expansion Sega's I mean expansion senior
citizen saving six seven nine eight
Alea Dean's how many allowance is that
you know it is singular singular eleven
sir
just thinking uptown baby you are
comical you know that I know you are you
know yes you do okay lord please help me
Jesus
yes lowers alright baby will have wheels
leave laters like I say about macron
sage to you I mean I'm rolling away
right now but I actually you right now
even though you robbed the either take
pay for me
the struggle is so real oh my god Wow
lord please Hilton rats
my I miss Rory a wheel cuz I really do
agree that ain't right
21 I love you and I miss you are me you
are my one true love and I thank God for
bringing us together
um emo crime with their hearts Indian a
little private lands some hearts and
bones
max excuse me can I purchase this please
stop yell at me can't you see I am
sending up a text to the one man that
actually loves and loves me and wants to
be okay even though you try to act like
you don't even know this girl you know
to help me pursue say mu slam another
thing if you all I'm sorry but these are
closed customers come back in stock
y'all close Randall what are you doing
at dirty little what are you I wish you
would she is a customer a gamble but she
is a deal she's not a dissident she is
not she's the gamble customer I don't
treat the devil's nice I do not treat
the devil's nice okay well I mother no
no no I smothers noodles i shakes
devil's eye cuts devil's side rails
nibbles I fries
toss-up in blitz and put on a hamburger
patty with ketchup mustard mayo and
ladies in eats devil's there's no a
little bitter down Jays a theater OD
sour
Oh in order to do all of that you need
to be a Christian okay Christian you
know these people should not act
yes I know you're not your attitude says
you're not acting like one
your body language says you're not
acting like one all of this attitude
that you're giving the customers
absolutely positively that you're gonna
get yourself together I am saying listen
you're not together I took a chance for
you because I see your potential I don't
no one else does and I see why but I
took a chance on you as the kindest of
my heart you and your sister you've been
out on your own for quite some time
my heart went out to you okay but doing
like you're doing right now you will not
be here long
sir I'm not getting my fence there well
then all you got is your sister didn't
you need to get yourself together do you
understand do you understand cut the
talk I'm not playing with you you only
have one more chance
in this store this is a place of
business you need to be respectful to
the customers you don't want to go to
somebody store and they treat you the
way you treat our customers why would I
want to have you here and am i treating
me nice like I treat you nice because
you treat people how you want to be
treated
that's why I watch it come back around
to you could it be that people don't
treat you nice because the way you treat
them preach you better mean it yes maybe
you need to pray pray you don't pray
with me come on Frank same prayer dear
Jesus help us to not fight and argue
sweetie bow
dear Jesus Ian how was not to hurt
people
dear Jesus Ian when I see that person
that I want to smack help me not to lay
hands on him and let us in the name of
Jesus is dear Jesus Ian help us to be
pure and holy at heart
then Jesus is Lord is alpha Jesus and
amen
and a man they made me okay I appreciate
the bet you bought the premature coats
up get up get up and I'm not helping you
get up I'm not helping you get up get up
get up get up
whoa oh okay not here now hey baby
Gary Hart okay we're gonna do in the
tools praise God thank you ratchet 21 so
why are you doing that I'm gonna go to
the other store and I want to check on
your sister
I want to inside track on my life after
you're done watching the show make sure
to go follow me on instagram facebook
and twitter and also make sure to follow
me on youtube and google+ as well I lack
the C corner
shop shop shop is that where you be a
nice clean you get bigger half I'm sorry
Mike and I become happy today like every
day it's like we're going to the where
mr. Mike you could really break through
girl the perlier is working perfect
I will have my bling and be merry
probably here oh let me just go put very
much of yes I surely here I thought you
were some white male
are you okay hey you showed us what she
won't good yeah hey man I'm just saying
though you got some nice hat Oh
eight straight up I got that good good I
got pink yellow and we put all the video
here girl boys be like hey mama
no no thank you I don't know what never
mind sure yeah like this okay we'll take
the mouth dog you'll meet that good good
man Jack shoes yellow wool paint paint
and yo I got a sale going on get all
three DS $500 and peep this the agent
everybody
hustle man and you bring me some old
people bring me some old papers yeah hey
I'm not gonna say $5 with a jerk aa8
ain't no aside man we have your size
none well next time we got you
thanks for coming yeah she's hi hey come
on I use so much not much mr. boss lady
Malita by bad missing week I was child
laborer Shula once a machinima so I was
just nice having some conversation
that's why she was here so long because
I believed and good customer service so
you know you want to build those
relationships so how are sales hey don't
nobody know shoes today
really yeah I had no one and nobody's
telling me no I'm just outgoing actually
pretty pet really yeah hey I got some
ideas if you want you know I got some
banks I could bring some people you knew
play some Bulls need real up with some
speakers give you each a up the insider
you don't do that sort of thing
necessarily I'll just say I was just
trying to help I got my iron I got my
soup
hey man this struggle is real don't hey
girl I like your hair thank God for this
Boston Market knows I was not trying to
cook this fool Carol you got this okay
don't be nervous do not be insecure you
can get this van you can get married oh
yeah one second
one second Hey how are you thank you so
do you see you look at this wine yes now
you want red do you know why red two
stains yeah you know a lady oh look at
this that is beautiful
you think so yes ou never kiss me there
before oh I like it
welcome to did this for me absolutely
oh my gosh i mighta went a little
overboard I want to try too hard you
know but I just want to give me a little
bit of wow you're the first guy to ever
do anything like this for me I like to
be the first of many things
mmm okay where am I sitting right here
cool take my purse please you know I
hate those things but for you that's a
good deal
I said I hate those papers money they're
cute fashion honey fashion Oh dick okay
I cook in my spare time
yeah
well I can't wait to eat it
Oh what is it edible that's good we
think I'm gonna have you over here and
not be able to provide I don't know okay
so what we have here is a honey glazed
chicken okay with a lemon garlic our
vegetables I make sure I drizzled olive
oil over nicely for you thank you then
some sweet potatoes I can't really tell
you about you just have to taste
I don't eat sweet potatoes oh you're
gonna eat these don't know when I was
younger I choked on sweet potatoes and
have another soft it's cuz I did that
was a little girl okay
and it just okay I don't know why I
stopped oh that's good exactly right
yeah wow that's amazing
see Buster mark is gonna have to compete
with me on the recipe cuz I could have
sworn they stole mine
I was just about to actually made it but
absolutely nobody we don't buy things
here no no
I want you to take a bitch oh yeah I'm
enjoying okay you know when was the last
time you got a focused on a wet
um well last week when I went to get a
pedicure
um Oh
like two three six years but is you
underway oh okay it's been so long I
just give you my foot is that what it is
it's so long I'm embarrassed but don't
you they did some crappy men it happens
yeah it does it does I'm hoping this is
not the case though
no not at all I hope not either because
I will kill you
I'm just playing no no no you can't know
you can just unzip it see I was thinking
okay sorry see you teach me I teach you
look at that look at that can you pick
huh ya can cook would you like me to
cook for you
oh yeah
Oh
feels really good it does I'm just I get
high Easy's not because you're massaging
my feet and my hormones are like really
starting to rage and OH
in early it feels like there's a furnace
inside my body nope mm-hmm
no I'm just just naturally Oh Carol yes
you know I love curly hair right
yeah that's wife worn my hair like it
was for me yeah see those are the little
touches that make such a difference does
it well you're worth it you're worth me
wearing this one hair style for about a
good three months only for you don't
change it ever really Wow
okay looks good come here come where
your over there
Oh
hey I'm good
well you can never tell if you're going
to heaven or if you're going to hey
everybody hope you enjoyed part 1 of the
season finale and you guys don't get all
mad at me like oh my gosh I can't
believe she stopped it there but there's
so much more to come I mean we got to
see how is this temptation about to go
down and the scene we just saw and is
there gonna be some forgiveness and
church with Bishop chocolate I'm telling
you that scene right there you're not
gonna want to miss so stay tuned because
next Friday at this same time we'll be
part two the final part of the season
finale so next Friday this time come
right back here and in between time
share the episode with all your friends
and family and if you haven't seen
episodes 1 through 6 or you have people
haven't seen episodes 1 through 6 you
need to get them on that okay honey and
follow me on Instagram Facebook and
Twitter angle + and make sure you
subscribe to me on youtube but
especially like I said you guys on
Instagram go follow me on Instagram
right now so you can get updates because
it is going down next Friday right here
at WWDC corner calm it is going to be
the last episode okay you guys I love
you and can you all do me a favor can
you write me comments on my Facebook
page at the sequin er or Instagram at
the C corner Simula some videos just
tell me why do you love the process so
much I honestly I mean I love because
it's my vision but I didn't think it
would be received so well from everybody
and I mean y'all love the show and I
love the show and I'm so glad that we
both love the show together but really
what is it what makes it so unique what
makes you so like oh my gosh girl when
is the next episode coming out what is
the next episode coming out what is the
next episode coming out what tell me
alright so write me comments on my
facebook page at the C corner and you
know tag me at the C corner on Instagram
I love seeing videos of you guys and
I'll post them so let me know so I love
you guys and until next Friday deuces
and smooches
we always invested a sacrifice today for
tomorrow's betterment but we don't know
that betterment is the one factor what
we're really doing it for we can't win
this war guys if you had six months to
live what would you do differently with
your life what would you do differently
if your life is not what you want it to
be if you're not living the way that you
want to live if you're not experiencing
what you want to experience if it's not
giving you what you want you've got to
ask yourself what have I sold my soul
a real man in the dark when nobody's
watching he put me in work a real man
when coach ain't even watching he's
studying film on his own but he's and he
loves the process everybody wanna be a
big everybody got a lot tattoos Alliance
most of y'all think that a lion is who
he is he cause him out for roaches here
when he catched that gazelle when when
he catched that zebra if a lion see an
animal that's wounded or real hunter see
an animal that's wounded what do they do
they don't kill him why don't they kill
him
he already heard and they beast a part
of being a beast just saying even
gazelle a part of being a beast is the
heart
it's the heart today excited bout cuz
real lions like to heart they love the
process just as much as they love the
prize and some of y'all just want to
score you don't like the process you're
not in love with the process
well they say when people take the
courage to journey into the center of
their fear they find nothing
it is only many layers of fear being
afraid of itself
we put in a hundred and twenty percent
every time or you don't put in nothing
because listen to me very closely
today this opportunity you have there
might not be here next year it might not
be here two year after next it might not
be hitting yet today this is the only
moment you got and you better take
advantage of this particular moment
you've hit the wall someplace you've
looked in the mirror too many times and
haven't smiled you want to change the
situation move from where you are the
journey is not easy before you start
that journey mentally you must fuel
yourself with the right reasons the
right fuel to sustain the entire journey
everyone's hot off the start it does not
take time you don't have to be talented
right you don't have to be gifted you
have after be the quickest the strong is
you don't have to be the most
intelligent to get
what you guys just got a grind no your
glide you might come from privilege your
daddy might look you up with a car you
might know you're gonna get your job but
you will not work me you better grow up
and get your brother's a man that if you
ever get better you be by somebody that
just that's just purely more talents
than you are and Brett might ever get me
by somebody because you beat yourself
Johanna Johanna hi guys welcome back to
my channel today I am doing another junk
journal with me it's been ages since
I've done a junk journal with me that's
because I finished in my junk journal
and I had to make another one and then
it took me a while to get around to
filming the video before I started
working in it and today's video I am
just doing a little journal entry to
kind of break it in this is the first
thing that I put into my junk journal
this is from this is a bag from my
anniversary my husband I just had our
first wedding anniversary in September
and so this is a bag from some jewelry
that he got me and all I'm doing is just
cutting it up so I can make it into a
pocket so I just trimmed down the bag
and I trimmed off the ribbon that was on
it because it was a little bit bulky and
just put some double-sided tape around
the bag on three sides just so I could
make a pocket with the actual bag itself
and then I have a couple of photos I'm
gonna slip in there later of the jewelry
and you know that we had together so I
just grabbed a tag and this is a gift
tag from my gift to him as well and I'm
just attaching those together with some
twine and slipping those into the pocket
and I decided that instead of just
putting my photos straight into the
pocket oh it's gonna back them first and
so I'm just going through some project
life cards that I need to remember to
use because I have a lot of project life
cards that I don't use often enough and
I'm just going to back the photos to the
cards so all I'm doing is just trimming
those photos down so that they will fit
nicely on cards and then once I trim
those down so that you can see like a
tiny little border around each picture
I'm just sticking those down with double
sided tape as well and those are just
gonna slip right into that little
packaging pocket it was kind of
challenging to work in this journal
after working in my big junk journal
last time was it was different it was
I'm still getting used to the different
size so I was kind of kind of not sure
how many pages it was gonna take up but
like how how it was gonna be laid out
it's just different but I do have a
couple of pieces here that I also want
to put in they're not actually a part of
that same spread I'm just putting them
into the journal because I want them in
here but then no it's from a couple of
different people that have sent me some
little little goodies and little notes
little letters so a couple of
subscribers that have sent me some
things so I just wanted to put those
into my journal as well and so I've got
an envelope from one of them that I'm
using to create a pocket and then I've
just talked the card into that and then
I'm just kind of trying to find other
places that I can fit the other couple
of notes without it being too bulky in
one spot
these are some flowers that somebody
sent me in some pop email and they're so
pretty and I wanted to put them in here
I made this little pocket with packaging
and acetate and just to keep them safe
but in the end they were a little bit
not only will they really bulky but they
were too tall otherwise I probably would
have put them into my journal but yeah
there are a bit too tall so I decided
not to put them in after all now I'm
just going through my vintage linens
printables that I have available in my
Etsy shop and choosing one I really like
this one this one it's one of my
favorites and so I just wanted to use
that to decorate the page and I just
took that along the bottom of the page
and I added some staples where the paper
met the fabric that was already on the
page and then these are some stickers
that I got in a sticky sticky Club
subscription and they are so cute I like
how they're they've got gold foil but
they've also got some see-through they
kind of transparent so they're really
cool I'm using one just to put the date
of our anniversary and then I was using
my pen to do an outline around the bag
and I do like the way that that looks
but actually ends up smudging and I
don't notice that until later but yeah
it didn't ever dry so I have to fix it
up later did some journaling on the big
card the big tag sorry and tucked it
back into the pocket and then I've got
some pictures lying around from the
wedding that were left over from our
guest book project and so I just chose
one of those to stick it onto the page
so it shows one of our little family
trimmed it down and then I again I'm
backing that onto a project life card
and trimming the project life card down
as well just because I'm not really a
huge fan of the rounded edges and it was
a little bit too wide for that space
added some of that beautiful washi tape
just to fill in that area and kind of
blend the printable into the page a
little bit and start to float it down
and then I realized that the pen smudged
so I grabbed a wipe and I just started
wiping it off I didn't really know what
to do because it was never gonna dry and
it was just gonna make a mess so had to
get it off so I kind of just smudge it
around with a dry it was like just a dry
baby wipe that I had on my table from
cleaning stamps like the day before and
yeah I just smudged it off and then I
thought I'll add some more stickers that
have some gold foiling on them and that
might just help take the focus off
mistake a little bit and just just make
it look a little bit more like it was
supposed to happen if that is my
finished spread as I said super super
simple and quick just trying to break
into the book I hope you guys enjoyed
this process video I hope you guys will
enjoy seeing me work in this new junk
channel as much as you did seeing me
work in the old one so hope you guys are
all doing well
and I'll see you in my next video bye
is it just me or does it seem like the
relationships you've been in or been
around in your past seem to shape who
you become in your future I remember as
a little girl never seeing a healthy
relationship my parents never got along
even though they loved me they were not
the best for each other and I don't know
if I copied this unknowingly but even as
a child it seemed like relationships
didn't work for me either I remember
playing on the swings of a little boy I
thought was the cutest thing ever and
then all of a sudden some little chick
walks by and he forgets all about me and
then goes racing after her to go play on
the seesaw and I'm just left hung to dry
and what's crazy is I'm still scarred by
those memories
till this day and no relationship has
worked for me since then I know life
isn't going to be a fairy tale and I'll
find love one day I guess this is just
part of the process
another early morning more like a
dreaded morning to me every morning I
fight to get out the bed it's just I
don't oh I just can't stand my job
I can't i oh I should be praying right
now it's probably I just hit my arm but
hey I hate it I hate it I hate it I hate
my job why I'll tell you why because I
want to be a talk show host but I'm 35
and I'm not getting any younger and on
top of it all I have bills to pay so
what do I do
I get up and go to work and it wouldn't
be so bad if I had something to make me
happy like a great relationship Jesus
but that's another prayer God still has
an answer in fact he hasn't answered any
of our prayers lately and him and I are
not on good terms
don't judge me I'm still a Christian but
honestly I'm depressed but I'm still
gonna put on my smiley face my cute
pumps and my dress and fake the funk
because that's what Christians are
supposed to do right act like we have it
all together
I mean hey if I'm gonna fake like I'm
okay I might as well be a diva in the
process do it girl do it do it do it
even though I can't stand my job I'm
still gonna be a diva yes
get it Michelle Obama my gig get it gig
what time is it oh hey I'm late always
late why can't I get myself together
oh gosh I gotta hurry up and this reason
right here is probably why God wanted me
to pray anyways because the rest of my
day is gonna be jacked up yeah I just
realized my wig gets stuck in my door
yeah you heard me right I can't believe
it myself
dang it and this right here is already
telling me how the rest of my day is
gonna go
I am already over today oh my gosh where
is the buzz I'm about to be late I just
got this new job at the mall working at
ratchet 21 oh my god serious Oh old as a
dollar in the street and guess who's
laughing et me thank you Jesus
oh sorry oh I almost just died
oh my goodness home oh my gosh yes
connect me to ratchet 21 look a car just
tried my life okay I cannot come into
work today I don't know what's going on
be my deck my ankle everything is broken
on me cuz I almost just died
girl I need you to come get me out and I
need to come into work today
I'm just trying to kill I need you to
come get me ratney I mean one sec hey
cease would I ain't going into work
today so what we bout to do y'all know
what you bout to do but I got to get
this paper you still have silly girl I'm
a hustler fun right man you still
messing with that human hair girl you
know that is one of any messing with
that human I'm selling straight Remy I
got all the chicks strung out on mmm
bagel one of my weed hairs now ain't it
sweet pair yeah I'm about to give this
paper stay in the car
why I wanna go room there she go pantech
what's up you know I need that good good
cuz I got alopecia from my head being on
fire that means you want that Remy it's
the best I get everybody on the street
wearing them I want it I want that
ribbon I want that real good with me I
want no human I want women feel some
type of way some type of way some type
of way women feel some type of way some
type of way some type of way women feel
some type of way what stopped me what
hold on I mean let me show you that good
good now this Remy
gonna cost you five hundred dollars five
hundred dollars why are you charging me
so much better pick in fluctuation
what beauty is a fool lace creamy color
natural 14 is straight from Indonesia
weed it don't get no better than this
honey
all right get $500 you don't want it
that's okay that's not right trust me I
got plenty of people who gonna buy this
hair right here okay wait wait wait come
on now give me that give me that give me
that ring baby you know why I need them
tracks up in my head oh I just need it
come on look not on play games but Brad
- ooh did you say you got me you better
get me I want my money
tomorrow five o'clock sharp right here
you know I'm good you know I'm good you
know I'm good here what is so nice with
you something oh this is tryin my life
what the what end up Oh
also tired Oh ain't nobody got time for
this
you better be my money oh no oh oh
all this walking doesn't make me hungry
I'm not gonna live rather drink of coke
in eat a hoagie
I'm not gonna lie I don't wanna count
ocala right not Allah Otto Otto Otto
Chitti pray yeah yeah
it's a brand and fashion school together
harder Kisha I truly got my uncle Vidur
Reddy's daughter a chili like Melissa
bring you close it by cha cha ching girl
you're so freaking breathe
Oh
Oh
Hey I just want to let you guys know the
show isn't over and you just got a sneak
peek of the parody mustard mayo cheese
and ham every episode is gonna feature
half of a parody so it's like you get
the first look and insight of what the
parody is gonna be for that month so
stay tuned and enjoy the process yes
today was a very long day
I wonder if Tyrese is gonna call me oh I
forgot to tell you all about Tyrese he's
just a friend
and Michael further but try see if I can
trust them oh hey you hello hello Tyrese
hello
another pathetic lonely diva haha gosh
you desperate woman crack me up
seriously seriously haha oh gosh oh okay
I know I'm tired I know I'm stressed out
but I know I'll see a chick who look
like Nicki Minaj sitting across from me
well you don't think I'm really thinking
imagining something up let me just
introduce myself my name is Miss Bossy
okay ah it's not nice to meet you I
don't care how you're doing all that
mushy gushy stuff who has time for that
hello Miss Bossy I'm the person that
people talk to when they finally
realized that God Jesus whatever his
name is is not the answer they finally
get it through your thick skulls that
I'm the only one who has the answer you
know I know everything in foot
em everything hahah cuz I'm the boss if
you know everything they tell me why
every time I meet a guy nothing works
out he turns out to be a complete jerk
even though one who was a friend it
wants to be more than a friend and act
like he's the best thing to slice bread
and I keep gonna do everything different
from any other man and he's all this and
all that he turned out to be a jerk just
like the rest of them tell me why tell
me why Miss Bossy what is that why can't
I find love huh why can't I be happy
Wow oh I'll tell you why you're a
desperate pathetic i lonely mess it's
because you won't give it up to a man
okay men are visual you walk around you
don't show any cleavage you don't show
any booty I mean let's show some booty
they like that type of stuff and then
here you go trying to follow that Bible
or whatever that thing is and you want
to be all purified you know what a man
smells when he comes around you celibacy
and then he books he doesn't even want
to be around you cuz he knows you're not
going to give it up okay if you give it
up just a little just a little every now
and again you'll keep on me but what do
I though ha ha I'm just the Bulls I'm
worth more than that ok I mean I got
confidence I may not have anybody but
I'm not desperate I'm trying to help you
and all the other desperate women out
there you think of man's gonna stand by
his side and you don't give it up you'll
answer yourself if he's not getting it
from you he's getting it from somebody
else
trust and believe that I need to be
desperate ok if he can't get his act
together then he don't want me if that
is that he don't want me he don't need
me he don't deserve me or any men
running your door down to try to be with
you know exactly I can help you get a
man you know that's what you want right
you want to be lusted I mean loved right
in you you want to feel a man's hug and
his touch right I can help you get that
if you just listen to me honey trust me
trust the Bulls trust the Bulls okay
I refuse to settle
look there's a million girls out there
who are prettier than you smarter than
you and have much better bodies than you
it's smaller heads good lord I don't
know what that God man was thinking when
he made you but Joey is big god I don't
even know how you can carry that thing
what how does it feel huh just it I just
want to know really is it Diggy you just
always link to one side dealing this
waggling you always dealing forward I
mean seriously that is huge it's
ginormous
it really is I think that you need to do
something about that
what really I'm surprised that man even
talked to you with a head like that
Kelly haha anyways see these other women
they understand how to win the game they
give up just a little bit just a little
bit and then they get money they could
get cause they get men chasing after
them left and right
and you just sit y'all looming and
pathetic trying to keep your legs closed
gosh let me know how long that works out
for you huh girl you tripping uh-huh is
that him is that him calling right now
yeah it's him answer the phone oh it was
on the phone I am not picking up this
phone answer the phone oh I saw the
phone do it oh my god if you don't pick
up that phone you need to be grateful
he's even paying you any attention in
the first place now pick it up oh gosh
women these days oh oh
hello hey what's up beautiful Therese I
already know what you're gonna say about
earlier my bad
it's not like we together nothing unless
you want to be
how're you guys thank you so much for
tuning in to the C corner and watching
my very first episode of the process and
it literally has been a process to get
this done but you guys have been so
patient and I love you all so much and I
finally did it there's going to be one
episode a month and also one parody
month so the end of October is going to
feature the second episode of the
process and the new parody that's coming
out that's going to feature Miss Bossy
yeah a lot of you guys have been asking
to see her so she's going to be in this
new parody for the month of October
don't forget about my cover contest for
mustard mayo cheese and ham do a cover
and you're going to win a hundred dollar
gift card and an official mustard mayo
cheese and ham t-shirt and I'm going to
announce the winners when the new parody
for the month of October comes out so be
on the lookout next Saturday for the
full parody of mustard ma'am cheese and
ham and next month for the second
episode of the process and the parody
featuring Miss Bossy I want you guys to
tweet this episode I want you guys to
Facebook it share it
Instagram pictures of it so until next
time or really when I see you guys next
Saturday for the full parody of mustard
mayo cheese and ham juices and smooches
I'm a stealer, I'm a thief.
I steal everything I can.
In a way, I always adapt from others.
But I would not call it stealing.
I do it all the time with Stevie Wonder:
harmonic progressions, or grooves.
Well I think we all steal a little bit.
We look at what has been done before
and we try to make something a little bit better.
One of the best ways to learn
is to copy something.
I think it's fine to take stuff.
Even directly from another artist.
I mean, I ideally the further the better,
cos' it just makes it more interesting.
And really the more borrowing, stealing,
whatever you consider it,
from the more sources, and done
with the more skill, the better the work is, I find.
Even if I wanted to copy something
my process is so different
that it becomes completely idiosyncratic.
We can do some much. You can take something
and turn it into something entirely different.
And if people recognise the sample in your work,
you haven't done your job as an artist.
Now, people sampling my stuff,
it's kind of a complement.
I have no problem with it, at all. I think that people
that have a problem with sampling
they're not really thinking about what the creative
process is all about.
If you're appropriating somebody else's work
it's probably an amazing thing that they've done,
and there's nothing wrong with celebrating that.
I think it makes us all part of society.
It's a struggle for everyone. So acknowledge
those people who are helping you
in a very specific way. Respect what people
are creating, respect the specificity of that.
But on the other hand, there's no ultimately
unique thing; everything is in conversation
with so many other different ideas, objects,
sounds, books, whatever it is.
Nothing we do is original. The only thing that's
original about anything is us as individuals.
And if you're really tuned into who you are
as an artist: what makes you unique,
your entire life experience
and you center yourself before you start writing,
there's gonna be this emotional truth in your work,
and even if you're using some other ideas
that are maybe slightly derivative
of someone else,
if that emotional truth comes though in your work
it's gonna speak to people, it's gonna resonate.
coby's likes all six five look he's not
gonna be like you're not gonna be like
your Heinie's give me like all partners
gonna be about six eight Cove you bought
my dad's hi
go Gabby perfect put eight right
[Applause]
except free-throw line okay good
first thing I got is our swipes can you
count for me yeah good good let's go
control control control
go ahead wait if he does either all
right come on come on good good good
good good
louder louder louder good come on come
on come on come on throw it throw it
good good all right
[Music]
five one this way fog on that way no
one's gonna move on but just to get
refresh okay again coming down catching
on
- Stephanie across let's get a one or
two dribble pull-up three three three
three loose
two more
briefs good three last two last one you
go one again now it is a regular Ripper
this is all on the on the ha ha show one
more good coming down so catch it on the
hop one dribble quick behind the back to
a 1-0 pull alright went on the one
dribble
this is a tech middle make sure you
actually separate I don't want you right
here and doing that move use your length
get that right foot when you double hind
it back almost into the paint so if you
like a lunge step forward before you
wrap it put that behind the back cuz
that's really gonna sell that you're
attacking downhill if you just do this
like a little baby hop so I'm really
gonna work
good one
donors with your whole base two more
give me left hand once which good one
dribble one maybe ten good three good
voice you seven make sure when you go to
the right you're still doing the hop and
not just like the regular Richter
good good
we're taking two dribbles same thing
behind the back pounds left foot right
foot little big step one take it five
big big step
[Music]
so you know when you want to lower the
rim suck it done - good
5 tip slams then water okay why hmm
I have AC in there yeah actually yeah I
can't wait till it gets cold man I can't
wait goal one girl pull up will make for
come down okay good one
make sure get outside my hit the big
time I'm gonna be nice and wide get out
relax
go that was much better that's one we're
starting over to that look a lot better
[Music]
good now we got our hang for a while
really did that shoulder race freeze
every ballot every shot quick get a
little bit lower one a little bit lower
a little bit more violent hit anywhere
coming out good last one and go back to
America you got it last one gotta get
more for ground quick freeze go freeze
[Music]
that's still in v3 starting right here
on your hang you got to land both feet
in front of the cops three start an MVA
three Ln front college three so you're
actually going forward into this I won
two we're snatching the ball back one
two and snatching it back really quick
and raising so we got three moves three
hangs back to back to back
all right that's good breeze so good we
can't get it from in front once you once
you breathe a lot better
good give me the shit good one
get all the way to me on a hang and
shift back then get back to me good much
better
good thank you that's good one but let's
not drag our foot let's actually jump on
the Left do you like good that's all
this except finish right hand right foot
or inside reversal is good better much
better much better let's get three more
good ones like that and then we'll do
some caching shoot stuff T let's go good
yes good good much better
two more off the ground once you good
yes good good good
we ain't been goin for ya - go get it
rhythm you're alright hold it up there I
know hold it up there three one it's the
only thing don't be short - very good
some water real quick so it's this one
cold side to side both starts in Toronto
in Robert
[Music]
[Music]
one two three attack
remember that pullback we did so the
close step pullback lunging forward all
right we got that move it one gotta make
five
Kobe give them the ball now so did
everyone - good Oh big time good good
big time good hit it anyways yeah Merry
Christmas
got a freebie move it good I'll be short
yes that's it good beautiful whatever
you do bigger lunch sell it bigger the
lunge the more defenders gonna fly by
you that's what we want big one big one
yes good beautiful
good two more just like that
one two one two attack
drop those if good one quick windmill or
something good God
thank you Oh three come on we gotta get
in shape dude you go to frickin Colorado
with altitude
[Applause]
it's hard not as hard as you can like I
have no sympathy good as hard as you can
come on Chris deck oh yes good good one
going right back into it just shows a
little bit of baby bounce let's go
[Music]
Papa Papa Papa they're really tight on
you and forcing you left slightly which
they're gonna be doing because every
coach that's force base line to get
really all you're gonna do is be right
here let's get it I got smallest ball
raised like I'm problem I like pry right
above your belly button ball right here
dip in extra order and getting into
their body and then finish so we're
getting that into a to handoff good
we're good
each we're square go go one everybody
keeps going when it's easy let's go hard
yeah good way to separate that time
that's how it should be every time don't
move
stick it good yeah go breeze it good
game it's over give Kobe offense yeah
give them offense
I just wanna see coach playing office
get a bucket kobe log on get a bucket
[Music]
I don't believe so
Kobe did you tell me you beat him before
[Music]
there we go lock up Kauai
[Applause]
Oh No Toby do you get one point before
Kevin scores again you win I know but
[Music]
game it's over the deeds done go take a
seat Coby give my water back yep I'm not
gonna be the only one that's on camera
getting frickin crossed
hey you got the ball phone relay then
punched off and you got Scott
[Music]
shouts out our whole day
